Title: MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.11223v1

Published Time: Fri, 13 Mar 2026 00:07:44 GMT

Number of Pages: 16

Markdown Content:
# MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Riccardo Campi 1 Nicol` o Oreste Pinciroli Vago 1 Mathyas Giudici 1 Marco Brambilla 1 Piero Fraternali 1

Abstract 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) over Knowledge Graphs (KGs) suffers from the fact that indexing approaches may lose important con-textual nuance when text is reduced to triples, thereby degrading performance in downstream Question-Answering (QA) tasks, particularly for multi-hop QA, which requires composing an-swers from multiple entities, facts, or relations. We propose a domain-agnostic, KG-based QA framework that covers both the indexing and retrieval/inference phases. A new indexing ap-proach called Map -Disambiguate - Enrich -Reduce (MDER) generates context -derived triple descrip-tions and subsequently integrates them with entity - level summaries, thus avoiding the need for explicit traversal of edges in the graph dur-ing the QA retrieval phase. Complementing this, we introduce Decompose - Resolve (DR), a retrieval mechanism that decomposes user queries into resolvable triples and grounds them in the KG via iterative reasoning. Together, MDER and DR form an LLM-driven QA pipeline that is robust to sparse, incomplete, and com-plex relational data. Experiments show that on standard and domain-specific benchmarks, MDER-DR achieves substantial improvements over standard RAG baselines (up to 66%), while maintaining cross-lingual robustness. Our code is available at https://github.com/ DataSciencePolimi/MDER-DR_RAG .

1. Introduction 

Knowledge Graphs (KGs) are central for structuring in-formation, as they represent facts as triples in the form of subject, predicate, and object, that can be queried, rea-soned over, and extended (Hogan et al., 2021). Further-more, the advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) 

> 1

Department of Electronics, Information and Bioengineering, Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy. Correspondence to: Riccardo Campi <riccardo.campi@polimi.it >.

Preprint. March 13, 2026. Description     

> Description Summaries
> Knowledge
> Graph
> Linked Triples
> & Summaries
> M
> R
> D
> Extracted
> Triples
> Described
> Triples
> E
> Disambiguated
> Triples
> Y
> V
> Answer
> XY
> VX
> Decomposed
> Placeholder
> Triples
> Summary
> Graph
> Search
> DR
> Source Documents
> Indexing (MDER):
> Retrieval
> (DR):
> Question
> X

Figure 1. High - level overview of our KG-based question answer-ing framework, featuring the MDER indexing approach for con-densing multi - hop information during KG construction so that downstream retrieval does not need explicit hop traversal, and the DR retrieval mechanism for resolving queries through structured graph reasoning using MDER summaries, allowing multi - entity reasoning without explicit KG path traversal. 

has accelerated both the automatic construction of KGs from text, improving their indexing performance, and their use as external knowledge sources for Question-Answering (QA) tasks, reinforcing their role in modern information retrieval (Pan et al., 2024), which is typically referred to as graph-based Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) (Ar-slan et al., 2024). However, extracting triples from unstructured text is in-herently lossy (Zhong et al., 2023). Important contextual nuances, such as the scope of an assertion, implicit relation-ships, or descriptive qualifiers, are often discarded when text is reduced to atomic triples. This loss has practical consequences in every vertical application domain: legal compliance depends on conditions and exceptions; scientific accuracy relies on qualifiers and constraints; and multilin-gual retrieval requires preserving grammatical and eviden-1

> arXiv:2603.11223v1 [cs.CL] 11 Mar 2026 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries

tial nuance. Existing efforts to repair or extract KGs (Dong et al., 2025; Zhao & Zhang, 2025; Zhang et al., 2024), enhance indexing-retrieval pipelines (Cohen et al., 2024; Munikoti et al., 2023), or reintroduce missing context (Huang et al., 2025) still suffer from limitations such as reliance on explicitly asked QA pairs, domain - restricted applicability, and post - hoc or speculative inference that risks reducing precision. Rather than performing multi-hop reasoning at query time through explicit graph traversal, we shift relational com-position to the indexing phase by compressing multi-hop evidence into entity-centric summaries. By aggregating contextual information across related triples during KG con-struction, the proposed approach transforms multi-hop ques-tion answering from a path-search problem into a structured retrieval-and-reasoning problem over compressed represen-tations. Building on this insight, we introduce MDER-DR, a KG-based QA framework that jointly addresses indexing and retrieval. The first component, Map–Disambiguate–Enrich–Reduce (MDER), is an indexing methodology that minimizes con-textual information loss during KG construction by gener-ating natural language descriptions for triples and consoli-dating them into entity-level summaries. These summaries capture relational evidence spanning multiple hops, reduc-ing the need for explicit graph traversal at inference time. The second component, Decompose–Resolve (DR), is a retrieval mechanism that decomposes compositional user queries into resolvable triples and iteratively grounds them in the KG using the precomputed summaries. Together, MDER and DR define an LLM-driven QA pipeline that decouples relational complexity from inference-time traversal while preserving the expressive richness of natural language. We empirically evaluate the proposed framework on multiple multi-hop QA benchmarks, including cross-lingual and domain-specific settings. Exper-imental results demonstrate consistent improvements over vector-based and graph-based RAG baselines, as well as increased robustness under language mismatch and sparse relational conditions. In summary, our work makes the following contributions: • MDER, an indexing approach that compresses multi-hop relational context into entity-centric summaries during KG construction, reducing information loss and inference-time traversal. • DR, a retrieval mechanism that enables structured, iter-ative reasoning over summarized KG representations for compositional queries. • An extensive empirical evaluation across datasets, do-mains, and languages, demonstrating the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed framework for multi-hop QA. 

2. Related Work 

RAG was introduced in (Lewis et al., 2020) to combine the advantages of information retrieval with LLM’s reason-ing capabilities. It involves incorporating an information retrieval step that uses vectorized external sources such as databases, text, or web sources, depending on the specific use case, before generating responses. Microsoft took a step forward with GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2025), which uses a KB as the external knowledge base. Recent advances now enable LLMs to automatically construct KGs by extracting entities and relations directly from unstructured text, a pro-cess that, however, remains inherently lossy. (Zhong et al., 2023). When rich language is reduced to atomic triples, key context, such as the scope of statements, implicit relation-ships, and important qualifiers, is often lost. Multi-hop question answering over KGs has been exten-sively studied in the context of explicit path-based or it-erative reasoning with methods like GraftNet (Sun et al., 2018) and PullNet (Sun et al., 2019), which require ex-plicit traversal or expansion of relational paths at inference time. Benchmarks such as ComplexWebQuestions (Talmor & Berant, 2018) and WikiHop (Welbl et al., 2018) have high-lighted the challenges of decomposing questions into inter-mediate reasoning steps and aggregating evidence. Neuro-symbolic approaches aim to combine the interpretability of symbolic reasoning with the flexibility of neural models, by formalizing reasoning over structured representations while learning components of the inference process (Liang et al., 2017; Dong et al., 2019). Our work is conceptually aligned with this line of research; however, instead of learn-ing symbolic programs, we compress relational evidence into entity-centric summaries. More recent advances in multi-hop reasoning include chain-of-thought prompting (Wei et al., 2022), iterative retrieval-reasoning approaches like IRCoT (Trivedi et al., 2023) and ReAct (Yao et al., 2022), and demonstrate-search-predict frameworks (Khattab et al., 2022). While these methods excel at complex reasoning, they require multiple retrieval rounds and model calls during inference. Our approach differs by encoding multi-hop information during indexing, enabling more efficient retrieval. Some work seeks to recover missing information in existing KGs (Dong et al., 2025; Zhao & Zhang, 2025), while others aim to improve extraction methods (Zhang et al., 2024), yet practical and performance limitations remain. Some approaches jointly tackle KG indexing and downstream 2MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries Semantic      

> Chunker
> Chunk
> Translator &Summarizer
> Triple
> Extractor
> Triple
> Description
> Generator
> Triple
> Disambiguation
> Entity
> Summarizer
> Description
> Description Summary
> Knowledge
> Graph
> Summary
> Summary
> Linked Triples
> & Summaries
> MRD
> Extracted
> Triples
> Described
> Triples
> E
> Disambiguated
> Triples
> Chunks Refined
> Chunks
> Source Documents
> Refined Chunks

Figure 2. Indexing pipeline including the Map - Disambiguate - Enrich - Reduce (MDER) workflow. It begins with preprocessing, where input documents are segmented, summarized, and translated. The core pipeline then proceeds through: (1) Map extracts subject - predicate - object triples; (2) Disambiguate unifies fragmented or redundant entities; (3) Enrich adds contextual descriptions to triples; and (4) Reduce generates entity-centric summaries. The final output is a structured graph of interconnected document, chunk, entity, relationship, and triple nodes, optimized for downstream KG tasks, built upon a domain-agnostic RDF/OWL ontology. 

retrieval for QA tasks, such as QEDB (Cohen et al., 2024) and ATLANTIC (Munikoti et al., 2023), but the former is limited by the explicitness of QA pairs, and the latter by its domain specificity. TCR-QF (Huang et al., 2025) aims to mitigate this loss by reintroducing context or inferring missing links. However, these methods either rely heavily on post - hoc inference or introduce speculative connections that can compromise precision. While prior work on multi-hop and complex QA predomi-nantly relies on explicit graph traversal, iterative subgraph expansion, or dynamic reasoning chains at query time, our approach differs by relocating relational composition to the indexing phase through entity-centric summarization, transforming multi-hop QA into a structured retrieval-and-reasoning problem over compressed representations. This perspective complements existing KGQA and knowledge-based RAG paradigms while addressing limitations related to the sparsity of graphs, scalability, and cross-lingual ro-bustness. 

3. MDER-DR 

We propose Map-Disambiguate -Enrich -Reduce (MDER) and Decompose-Resolve (DR) as two complementary paradigms building an LLM-driven, KG-based QA frame-work designed to enhance performance in multi-hop sce-narios through MDER, a new indexing methodology that condenses relational information in entity-level summaries, and DR, a novel retrieval approach that semantically decom-poses users’ compositional queries into resolvable triples and grounds them into the KG using MDER’s summaries. 

3.1. Map-Disambiguate-Enrich-Reduce 

MDER addresses the inherent loss of contextual nuance that occurs when unstructured text is reduced to atomic triples during KG construction. Its main contribution lies in aggre-gating relational signals into entity - level summaries, remov-ing the need for downstream retrieval to traverse explicit hops. The process is structured into a preprocessing stage plus four sequential ones (i.e., mapping, disambiguation, enrichment, and reduction), each leveraging the potential of next-generation language models to incrementally refine the representation of information. The entire approach is in-spired by the divide et impera paradigm, which, rather than relying on a few large inferences, utilises numerous small steps (e.g., language model calls), enhancing control and transparency while ensuring the consistent application of safety checks. Figure 2 shows the entire indexing pipeline. 

Preprocessing Before the MDER pipeline begins, the input text undergoes preprocessing, including chunking, summarization, and translation, all of which are performed using language models for text generation and embedding. This ensures that the text is structured, concise, and unified, improving consistency in the subsequent stages. The chunking step employs a windowed semantic chun-ker (Kamradt, Greg, 2024). The text is first split into sen-tences, and a sliding window then measures vector similarity between adjacent sentences. When similarity drops below a threshold (e.g., 0.75), the preceding sentences are grouped into a new chunk, and the process continues. Chunk summarization uses a windowed mechanism that slides over the newly created chunks, summarizing the cen-tral chunk while drawing context from its neighbors. Its primary role is to prevent important passages from being fragmented, but it also produces concise, coherent repre-sentations by preserving essential meaning and removing markdown, newlines, and other extraneous noise. Finally, translating each chunk in English provides a uni-fied linguistic foundation for multilingual sources, ensuring 3MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

consistent operation across languages. The language choice is made given that English is increasingly becoming the world’s lingua franca .

Map The pipeline begins by passing each preprocessed chunk through a prompt -guided language model that ex-tracts subject-predicate-object triples. Conceptually, this step maps unstructured natural language, rich in nuance and variability, into a set of atomic assertions. Because this is the stage where information loss is most likely, the prompt is designed to encourage the detection of compound or nested relations, as well as temporal, causal, hierarchical, and synonymous links (see Section B). This yields a more fine - grained representation, increasing the number of triples but making implicit meaning explicit. Extracted entities are type -inferred from context, enabling a domain - agnostic approach suitable for diverse applications. 

Disambiguate Following mapping, the disambiguation stage addresses redundancy and fragmentation in triple rep-resentation at the entity level. Its principal aim is to assess whether entities with syntactic or semantic differences rep-resent, in fact, the same real-world concepts. Indeed, it’s not unusual to find the same concept represented in various forms, such as synonyms, abbreviations, and grammati-cal variations. For example, “ European Union ” and “ EU ”are different syntactic forms referring to the same concept, while “ Fr ´ed ´eric Chopin ” and “ Chopin the pianist ” represent semantically distinct references to the same person. In such cases, selecting a new entity name that better aligns with the actual concept and then attributing it to all the relevant entities effectively solves the issue. The pipeline first compares embedding similarities between candidate entity pairs. When similarity exceeds a threshold (e.g., 0.95), a prompt - guided language model examines their original textual contexts to make the final determination (see Section B). If the entities are deemed equivalent, it selects or generates a canonical identifier, favoring singular, concise, and general forms. These updated identifiers are then propagated back into the triples, replacing fragmented nodes with unified ones. The process repeats until no further merges occur, yielding a stable and coherent entity set. 

Enrich The enrichment stage is central to MDER, reintro-ducing the expressive richness of natural language without compromising the graph’s structural clarity and precision. Indeed, each triple is augmented with a natural -language description that captures the contextual elements in the origi-nating text, such as scope, qualifiers, conditions, exceptions, or temporal boundaries. To achieve this, the system retrieves the specific chunk(s) in which the triple was generated, along with the preceding and following ones, preserving lo-cal context and maintaining dependencies that span multiple chunks. Then, a prompt-guided language model produces a relevant English description that helps characterize each triple (see Section B). As an example, consider a triple such as “ Ferrero INTRO-DUCED Nutella ”. Suppose one chunk states that “ Nutella was launched in 1964 as a new spread developed from ear-lier hazelnut products ”, while another chunk independently notes that “ although Nutella was introduced in 1964, the recipe was modified in 2015 to improve spreadability ”. The enrichment step would then yield a description such as: “Ferrero introduced Nutella in 1964, and the recipe was subsequently adjusted in 2015 to enhance its texture ”. 

Reduce The final stage in MDER retains the contextual depth introduced during enrichment by consolidating the triple descriptions into condensed, entity-centric summaries, thereby de facto transforming the KG into a structure that supports hop -free downstream retrieval even for complex compositional queries. For each entity, the system collects all triples in which it ap-pears and concatenates their natural - language descriptions into a single contextual element, further augmenting it by the entity’s inferred type. A language model then generates an English summary that characterizes the entity based on this aggregated information (see Section B). As an example, suppose the target entity is “ Marconi ”, typed as an “ Engineer ”, with composing triples such as “ Marconi ACHIEVED Transatlantic Wireless Signal ” and “ Marconi WON Nobel Prize ” whose respective descriptions state “ Mar-coni achieved the first transatlantic wireless signal in 1901 ”, and “ Marconi WON Nobel Prize in Physics in 1909 ”. A language model then produces a concise summary, such as “Marconi was an engineer who achieved the first transat-lantic radio transmission in 1901 and received the 1909 Nobel Prize in Physics ”. 

3.2. KG Creation 

The following sections describe the KG creation process, including the ontology definition and the KG population. 

Ontology Definition The KG is built on a domain-agnostic RDF/OWL ontology that enables the representation of documents, their chunks, extracted entities, relationships, and corresponding triples. It defines five core classes that comprise the conceptual model (i.e., Document , Chunk ,

Entity , Relationship , and Triple ), as well as the object properties that connect instances of those classes and the data type properties that store literal information, such as names, URIs, and descriptions. At the document level, documents are linked to their con-stituent chunks through the hasChunk relation, while 4MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

their entities and relationships are kept using hasEntity 

and hasRelationship . An xsd:string references the hasUri , which may be either a unique identi-fier or a URL if the document is a web page, while 

belongsToDocument links chunks, entities, and rela-tionships to their originating document. At the chunk level, hasNext and hasPrevious pre-serve the original ordering, while chunk textual con-tents are stored in an xsd:string , hasContent .

belongsToChunk anchors entities, relationships, and triples to their source chunk. At the triple level, statements are represented in the graph via reification (Robaldo & Sun, 2017), enabling meta-data attachment and ensuring unique identification. Each triple references its constituent elements with hasSource ,

hasRelationship , and hasTarget . Since one of the key ideas of MDER is to enrich triples with their own descriptions, these are stored using the xsd:string hasDescription .Entities and relationships are assigned a xsd:string 

value via the hasName attribute, storing their un-escaped name. The xsd:string hasSummary stores the entity-centric summaries. relatesSource and 

relatesTarget describe how entities are connected one to another, while hasSource /isSourceOf and 

hasTarget /isTargetOf attach entities to relationships and vice-versa. 

KG Population After defining and loading the ontology, the system iterates over each unique source document, cre-ating a corresponding Document node, assigning it a san-itized identifier, and storing its URI. The system then pro-cesses all chunks belonging to that document, each of which becomes a Chunk node with its own URI and textual con-tent. Within each chunk, the system processes the assertions, generating two Entity nodes, one for the source (repre-senting the subject) and one for the target (representing the object), along with a Relationship node to represent the predicate. These are uniquely identified by URIs derived from their names, which are titled with the unescaped form of those names. The system materializes each assertion as a 

Triple node, uniquely identified by a URI that concate-nates its source entity, relationship, and target entity, and enriched with a description from its originating chunk. A generated summary is then generated for each entity using its triple descriptions. 

3.3. Decompose-Resolve 

Decompose -Resolve (DR) enables the downstream QA re-trieval task to extract evidence through a structured process that interprets user queries, decomposes them into semanti-cally meaningful components, and iteratively resolves them Translator    

> V
> Response
> Generator
> Answer
> Semantic
> Triple
> Decomposer
> XY
> VX
> Decomposed
> Placeholder Triples
> Summary
> Question
> Iterative
> Placeholder
> Resolver
> Graph Search
> DR
> XY

Figure 3. Retrieval pipeline, including the Decompose-Resolve (DR) approach. It begins with a user query, which is translated into English. DR then produces a set of placeholder-augmented triples from that question and grounds each placeholder in KG entities through a retrieval and reasoning loop. Resolved entities are propagated across triples, and supporting evidence is accumu-lated throughout the resolution process. Once all placeholders are resolved, a final answer is synthesized using accumulated sum-maries. 

against the KG until contextually grounded answers emerge. The resolved entities, along with their MDER-generated summaries, are then fed into the final module that gener-ates the user’s answer. In this way, relational information is integrated without requiring explicit multi-hop traversals, enabling compositional queries to be resolved through di-rect lookups rather than graph -walking. Figure 3 shows the retrieval pipeline. 

Preprocessing The system first applies alanguage - normalization preprocessing step that trans-lates the user’s query into English, if not, mirroring the MDER approach and ensuring the system operates on a consistent linguistic substrate. 

Decompose A decomposition phase, more pre-cisely Semantic Triple Decomposition, transforms the natural -language query from the user into a set of structured triples that may contain placeholders represent-ing unknown or intermediate entities. This is performed through a prompt that enables the identification of the latent relational structure implied by the query (see Section B). Similar to the MDER mapping stage, it extracts triples from the user’s intent rather than from text chunks. For example, a query such as “ Who was the wife of the king of Ithaca? ” may be decomposed into the placeholder -augmented triples “ Ithaca HAS KING X ” and “X HAS WIFE Y ”. 

Resolve The subsequent concept resolution phase, called Iterative Placeholder Resolution, progressively replaces placeholders by grounding them in KG entities. Triples are processed sequentially in the order defined during de-5MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

composition. For each triple, the known entity serves as the retrieval anchor, and candidate KG entities are identified through an embedding - similarity search over entity names. For example, resolving “ X” in “ Ithaca HAS KING X ”amounts to retrieving entities associated with “ Odysseus ”. Candidates are ranked by similarity, and the top -k enti-ties, along with their MDER -generated entity-level sum-maries, are retained. Since these summaries already capture multi -hop information, no graph traversal is required. A language model then analyzes and reasons over these sum-maries in the context of the surrounding triples, using them to resolve the current placeholder (see Section B). Once a placeholder is resolved, its value is propagated across all triples. The process repeats until all placeholders are con-sumed. Throughout this loop, summaries supporting each resolution are accumulated and capped at a maximum (e.g., 30), ensuring the final output remains reproducible. 

Response Generation Once the resolution loop con-cludes, the system enriches the retrieved evidence by adding more summaries obtained via a similarity search between the user’s question embedding and the MDER entity - level summaries. This optional step, which typically contributes up to 10 summaries, improves robustness to noise and helps recover relevant information even when decomposition fails to produce valid triples, as in single-word queries. All accumulated summaries are then passed to a final prompt -guided component, which receives both the user’s question and the curated set of summaries and synthesizes them into the final answer for the user (see Section B). The generation process avoids the injection of knowledge from the model and over-interpretation. 

4. Experiments 

To assess the performance of the proposed MDER-DR archi-tecture in multi-hop QA tasks under cross-domain shifts and across multiple languages, we compare it against common established QA approaches, including standard graph- and vector-based RAG implementations. 

4.1. Datasets 

We select multiple established multi-hop QA datasets, each with a distinct domain and reasoning style, and randomly sample 500 QA pairs from each. The associated documents are about 5,000 per dataset. WikiQA (Yang et al., 2015) con-tains factual questions derived from Wikipedia and is widely used to evaluate retrieval and short answer generation; Hot-potQA (Yang et al., 2018) requires reasoning on multiple paragraphs with explicit evidence aggregation, making it a standard benchmark for multi-hop QA. To evaluate performance in a specialized domain, we test BenchEE, the domain-specific energy-related dataset intro-duced by (Campi et al., 2026), comprising 101 pairs and their documents, which involve expert-level factual content and require technical knowledge. To this end, in addition to the automatic metrics described below, we include a compar-ison with a human-based evaluation conducted by domain experts. All experiments are repeated across multiple languages (e.g., English, Italian, French, and Spanish), distinguishing be-tween cases where the query language matches the indexing and retrieval language and cases where it does not. QA pairs are translated using a prompt-guided language model (see Section B) and manually quality-checked. In scenarios in-volving mismatched languages, all mismatching languages are selected and their results averaged. 

4.2. Models 

For all tasks involving language model generation, in-cluding indexing, retrieval, and evaluation -related outputs, we employ the gpt-oss:120b or gpt-oss:20b mod-els, chosen based on task complexity, which provide the strongest performance among the open - source LLMs (Agar-wal et al., 2025). For all embedding -based components, we rely on the mxbai-embed-large model, selected for its state - of -the -art retrieval quality and robustness across languages (Lee et al., 2024). 

4.3. Compared Architectures 

We compare MDER-DR against representative baselines that capture the dominant paradigms in retrieval - augmented QA. First, we implement a standard vector-based RAG us-ing a fixed - size chunker (chunk size 1000 tokens, 200 - token overlap) and a top-10 chunks retriever. Then, we include a graph -based retrieval architecture based on GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2025), using their default parametrization. Fi-nally, we compare the results with an LLM-only, non-RAG tool (ChatGPT). 

4.4. Evaluation Methods 

The evaluation assesses answer quality using three comple-mentary methods, each producing scores in the [0 , 1] range. LLM-as-a-Judge evaluation, similar to (Zheng et al., 2023), requires a language model to assess the question, the ex-pected answer, and the generated response, and to assign a score based on relevance and faithfulness. It adapts the prompt to the language of each instance and includes explicit rules for penalizing missing, off - topic, contradictory, or hal-lucinated content (see Section B); Soft Exact Match (Soft EM), scores 1 if the normalized expected answer (i.e., after lowercasing, Unicode normalization, punctuation removal, article removal, and whitespace collapsing) appears within 

6MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries   

> Table 1. Evaluation scores on WikiQA, HotpotQA, and BenchEE grouped by evaluation method and language match/mismatch. ∆(%)
> indicates the percentage improvement in the score of MDER-DR compared with the best baseline.

Dataset Evaluator Match LLM-only Vector-RAG GraphRAG MDER-DR ∆ (%) 

WikiQA LLM-as-a-Judge ✓ 0.412 ± 0.021 0.477 ± 0.022 0.422 ± 0.022 0.790 ± 0.012 66% WikiQA LLM-as-a-Judge 0.363 ± 0.012 0.476 ± 0.013 0.424 ± 0.013 0.698 ± 0.011 47% WikiQA Soft EM ✓ 0.510 ± 0.022 0.538 ± 0.022 0.510 ± 0.022 0.800 ± 0.018 49% WikiQA Soft EM 0.408 ± 0.013 0.538 ± 0.013 0.516 ± 0.013 0.699 ± 0.012 30% HotpotQA LLM-as-a-Judge ✓ 0.565 ± 0.021 0.610 ± 0.021 0.606 ± 0.021 0.667 ± 0.021 9% HotpotQA LLM-as-a-Judge 0.515 ± 0.012 0.578 ± 0.013 0.582 ± 0.012 0.659 ± 0.012 13% HotpotQA Soft EM ✓ 0.458 ± 0.022 0.548 ± 0.022 0.562 ± 0.022 0.586 ± 0.022 4% HotpotQA Soft EM 0.347 ± 0.012 0.471 ± 0.013 0.473 ± 0.013 0.525 ± 0.013 11% BenchEE LLM-as-a-Judge ✓ 0.748 ± 0.032 0.768 ± 0.036 0.730 ± 0.035 0.829 ± 0.031 8% BenchEE LLM-as-a-Judge 0.727 ± 0.031 0.630 ± 0.037 0.681 ± 0.034 0.830 ± 0.030 14% the generated response, 0 otherwise. For domain-specific QA datasets, a human-based evaluation employs domain experts to assign F1 scores, computed by separately assess-ing precision and recall between the facts in the expected answer and those in the generated response, for capturing correctness and information preservation, similar to (Campi et al., 2026). We utilized the bootstrap method to estimate the sampling distribution of the results. For each combination of dataset, architecture, and language, we generated k = 10000 re-sampled datasets by sampling with replacement from the original test scores. We report the mean of these bootstrap samples as the estimated performance and the standard de-viation as the measure of uncertainty (standard error). 

4.5. Hardware and Runtime 

All computations were performed on an NVIDIA RTX PRO 6000 Blackwell GPU (96 GB VRAM), a 48-core Intel(R) Xeon(R) w7-2495X processor, and 125 GB of system mem-ory. Each benchmark dataset required ≈ 1.5 days to train using MDER-DR, while inference typically took ≈ 5 sec-onds to produce an answer on our hardware. While MDER-DR introduces additional upfront cost during indexing due to multiple LLM calls, this cost is amortized across queries. At inference time, retrieval avoids explicit graph traversal, resulting in predictable and bounded la-tency. 

5. Results 

In this section, we analyze the performance of MDER-DR relative to other RAG and non-RAG baselines, examining the impact of language and domain complexity. Table 1 presents the quantitative results. MDER-DR con-sistently outperforms all baselines. The performance gap between MDER-DR and alternative approaches is higher in WikiQA when using the Soft EM evaluation (0.800 vs. 0.538 for Vector-RAG, the best baseline architecture). This result suggests that MDER-DR’s entity-centric summaries effectively preserve the details needed for exact answer ex-traction. In HotpotQA, where all RAG architectures have similar performances, MDER-DR still maintains an advan-tage. The language mismatch results reveal MDER-DR’s superior cross-lingual generalization: while other meth-ods can experience significant performance drops when languages differ, MDER-DR exhibits smaller degradation (e.g., from 0.790 to 0.698 in WikiQA when evaluated with LLM-as-a-Judge), which can be attributed to its translation-based preprocessing and language-agnostic KG represen-tation. Finally, the domain-specific BenchEE results con-firm that MDER-DR’s advantages extend to specialized contexts, achieving scores of ≈ 0.83 in both language con-ditions, while GraphRAG and Vector-RAG are more sen-sitive to language mismatch. The consistency of MDER-DR’s superior performance across diverse datasets, met-rics, and linguistic conditions validates its effectiveness as a general-purpose multi-hop QA framework. Paired bootstrap-ping (with k = 10000 resampled datasets and 1 σ signifi-cance threshold) reveals that the improvement introduced by MDER-DR is statistically significant in the majority of the experiments, the only exception being BenchEE evaluation with LLM-as-a-Judge using a matching language, where it is statistically indistinguishable from the LLM-only and Vector-RAG cases. Overall, MDER-DR has better median scores compared to the alternative architectures, especially on the WikiQA dataset. Moreover, it has similar standard deviations com-pared with other architectures, indicating reliability across different datasets and configurations. Figure 4 (Section A) presents the performance variations across architectures in more detail. 7MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Language comparison We evaluated whether language mismatch between queries and retrieved documents affects retrieval performance. As shown in Table 2, both evaluation metrics show minimal performance differences. For Soft EM, language match led to 0.564 ± 0.103 , compared to 

0.497 ± 0.104 for mismatch, while LLM-as-a-Judge scores were 0.635 ±0.144 and 0.597 ±0.135 respectively. The simi-lar performance across conditions, coupled with overlapping confidence intervals, suggests that language mismatch does not introduce statistically significant degradation in retrieval quality.  

> Table 2. Performance comparison based on language match vs. mismatch according to LLM-as-a-Judge and Soft EM methods.

Metric Match Mismatch 

Soft EM 0.564 ± 0.103 0.497 ± 0.104 

LLM-as-a-Judge 0.635 ± 0.144 0.597 ± 0.135 

LLM-as-a-Judge vs. human evaluation To validate our automated metrics, we calculated the correlation between the LLM-based judge scores and the human evaluation scores on the BenchEE dataset. We observed a strong Pear-son correlation in the scores ( ≈ 0.79 ), which indicates that the LLM judge is a reliable proxy for human evaluations. Table 3 shows the human evaluation scores on the BenchEE.  

> Table 3. Human evaluation results on BenchEE, based on judg-ments from three energy-domain experts.

Architecture Match Mismatch 

LLM-only 0.696 ± 0.029 0.636 ± 0.029 

Vector-RAG 0.762 ± 0.034 0.624 ± 0.038 

GraphRAG 0.775 ± 0.036 0.734 ± 0.039 

MDER-DR 0.910 ± 0.023 0.909 ± 0.023 

6. Conclusions 

The MDER-DR framework addresses the inherent informa-tion loss in conventional KG indexing by shifting relational composition to the indexing phase. The MDER approach preserves context by consolidating triple-level descriptions into entity-centric summaries. The DR mechanism enables the resolution of compositional queries via structured re-trieval rather than explicit graph walking. Empirical results show that MDER-DR outperforms stan-dard RAG baselines across multiple datasets. Specifically, in WikiQA, the system achieved a score of 0.800 compared to 0.538 for Vector-RAG. Furthermore, the framework is ro-bust to language mismatch, showing only small performance degradation, which is attributed to its translation-based pre-processing and language-agnostic representation. Future research directions include: investigating methods to reduce the computational cost of multiple LLM calls during the MDER indexing phase; exploring the application of the framework to larger datasets; and conducting an ablation study of the architecture’s components and hyperparameter tuning. 

Impact Statement 

This paper presents work aimed at advancing the field of Machine Learning. There are many potential societal con-sequences of our work, none of which we feel must be specifically highlighted here. 

Use of Generative AI Tools 

LLMs were used for proofreading and grammatical correc-tions of the manuscript only. They were not used to generate scientific content, experiments, analyses, or conclusions. 

References 

Agarwal, S., Ahmad, L., Ai, J., Altman, S., Applebaum, A., Arbus, E., Arora, R. K., Bai, Y., Baker, B., Bao, H., et al. gpt-oss-120b & gpt-oss-20b model card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.10925 , 2025. Arslan, M., Ghanem, H., Munawar, S., and Cruz, C. A survey on rag with llms. Procedia Computer Sci-ence , 246:3781–3790, 2024. ISSN 1877-0509. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2024.09.178. 28th International Confer-ence on Knowledge Based and Intelligent information and Engineering Systems (KES 2024). Campi, R., Pinciroli Vago, N. O., Giudici, M., Rodriguez-Guisado, P. B., Brambilla, M., and Fraternali, P. A graph-based rag for energy efficiency question answering. In Verma, H., Bozzon, A., Mauri, A., and Yang, J. (eds.), 

Web Engineering , pp. 41–55, Cham, 2026. Springer Na-ture Switzerland. ISBN 978-3-031-97207-2. Cohen, W. W., Chen, W., De Jong, M., Gupta, N., Presta, A., Verga, P., and Wieting, J. QA Is the New KR: Question-Answer Pairs as Knowledge Bases. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 37(13):15385– 15392, Jul. 2024. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26794. Dong, H., Mao, J., Lin, T., Wang, C., Li, L., and Zhou, D. Neural logic machines. In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Learning Representations , 2019. Dong, N., Kertkeidkachorn, N., Liu, X., and Shirai, K. Re-fining noisy knowledge graph with large language mod-els. In Gesese, G. A., Sack, H., Paulheim, H., Merono-Penuela, A., and Chen, L. (eds.), Proceedings of the Work-shop on Generative AI and Knowledge Graphs (GenAIK) ,8MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

pp. 78–86, Abu Dhabi, UAE, January 2025. International Committee on Computational Linguistics. Edge, D., Trinh, H., Cheng, N., Bradley, J., Chao, A., Mody, A., Truitt, S., Metropolitansky, D., Ness, R. O., and Larson, J. From local to global: A graph rag ap-proach to query-focused summarization, Apr 2025. URL 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16130 .Hogan, A., Blomqvist, E., Cochez, M., D’amato, C., Melo, G. D., Gutierrez, C., Kirrane, S., Gayo, J. E. L., Navigli, R., Neumaier, S., Ngomo, A.-C. N., Polleres, A., Rashid, S. M., Rula, A., Schmelzeisen, L., Sequeda, J., Staab, S., and Zimmermann, A. Knowledge Graphs. ACM Comput. Surv. , 54(4), July 2021. ISSN 0360-0300. doi: 10.1145/3447772. Huang, M., Bu, C., He, Y., and Wu, X. How to mitigate in-formation loss in knowledge graphs for graphrag: leverag-ing triple context restoration and query-driven feedback. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Fourth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence , IJCAI ’25, 2025. ISBN 978-1-956792-06-5. doi: 10.24963/ijcai.2025/901. Kamradt, Greg. 5 Levels Of Text Splitting, 2024. Khattab, O., Santhanam, K., Li, X. L., Hall, D., Liang, P., Potts, C., and Zaharia, M. Demonstrate-search-predict: Composing retrieval and language models for knowledge-intensive nlp. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.14024 , 2022. Lee, S., Shakir, A., Koenig, D., and Lipp, J. Open Source Strikes Bread - New Fluffy Embedding Model, 2024. Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., K ¨uttler, H., Lewis, M., Yih, W.-t., Rockt ¨aschel, T., Riedel, S., and Kiela, D. Retrieval-augmented gener-ation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Larochelle, H., Ranzato, M., Hadsell, R., Balcan, M., and Lin, H. (eds.), Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 33 of NIPS ’20 , pp. 9459–9474, Red Hook, NY, USA, 2020. Curran Associates Inc. ISBN 9781713829546. Liang, C., Norouzi, M., Berant, J., Le, Q. V., and Lao, N. Neural symbolic machines: Learning semantic parsers on freebase with weak supervision. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations ,2017. Munikoti, S., Acharya, A., Wagle, S., and Horawalavithana, S. Atlantic: Structure-aware retrieval-augmented lan-guage model for interdisciplinary science. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12289 , 2023. Pan, S., Luo, L., Wang, Y., Chen, C., Wang, J., and Wu, X. Unifying Large Language Models and Knowledge Graphs: A Roadmap. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 36(7):3580–3599, 2024. doi: 10. 1109/TKDE.2024.3352100. Robaldo, L. and Sun, X. Reified input/output logic: Combin-ing input/output logic and reification to represent norms coming from existing legislation. Journal of Logic and Computation , 27(8):2471–2503, 2017. Sun, H., Ma, T., Yih, W.-t., Tsai, C.-T., Liu, J., and Chang, M.-W. Graftnet: Graph-based reasoning for question answering over knowledge graphs. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 2506–2515, 2018. Sun, H., Dhingra, B., Chang, M.-W., and Cohen, W. W. Pullnet: Open domain question answering with iterative retrieval. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 2380–2390, 2019. Talmor, A. and Berant, J. The web as a knowledge base for answering complex questions. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pp. 641–651, 2018. Trivedi, H., Balasubramanian, N., Khot, T., and Sabharwal, A. Interleaving retrieval with chain-of-thought reasoning for knowledge-intensive multi-step questions. In Pro-ceedings of the 61st annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (volume 1: long papers) , pp. 10014–10037, 2023. Wei, J., Wang, X., Schuurmans, D., Bosma, M., Ichter, B., Xia, F., Chi, E., Le, Q. V., and Zhou, D. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In Koyejo, S., Mohamed, S., Agarwal, A., Belgrave, D., Cho, K., and Oh, A. (eds.), Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems , volume 35, pp. 24824–24837. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022. Welbl, J., Stenetorp, P., and Riedel, S. Constructing datasets for multi-hop reading comprehension across documents. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 512–521, 2018. Yang, Y., Yih, W.-t., and Meek, C. WikiQA: A challenge dataset for open-domain question answering. In M `arquez, L., Callison-Burch, C., and Su, J. (eds.), Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pp. 2013–2018, Lisbon, Portugal, September 2015. Association for Computational Linguis-tics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D15-1237. Yang, Z., Qi, P., Zhang, S., Bengio, Y., Cohen, W., Salakhut-dinov, R., and Manning, C. D. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. 9MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

In Riloff, E., Chiang, D., Hockenmaier, J., and Tsu-jii, J. (eds.), Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pp. 2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium, October-November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D18-1259. Yao, S., Zhao, J., Yu, D., Du, N., Shafran, I., Narasimhan, K. R., and Cao, Y. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The eleventh international conference on learning representations , 2022. Zhang, Y., Sadler, T., Taesiri, M. R., Xu, W., and Reformat, M. Fine-tuning language models for triple extraction with data augmentation. In Biswas, R., Kaffee, L.-A., Agarwal, O., Minervini, P., Singh, S., and de Melo, G. (eds.), Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Knowledge Graphs and Large Language Models (KaLLM 2024) , pp. 116–124, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024. kallm-1.12. Zhao, W. and Zhang, Z. Knowledge Graph Completion Fus-ing Description and Structural Feature. In Proceedings of the 2025 3rd International Conference on Commu-nication Networks and Machine Learning , CNML ’25, pp. 178–184, New York, NY, USA, 2025. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400713231. doi: 10.1145/3728199.3728226. Zheng, L., Chiang, W.-L., Sheng, Y., Zhuang, S., Wu, Z., Zhuang, Y., Lin, Z., Li, Z., Li, D., Xing, E., Zhang, H., Gonzalez, J. E., and Stoica, I. Judging LLM-as-a-Judge with MT-Bench and Chatbot Arena. In Oh, A., Naumann, T., Globerson, A., Saenko, K., Hardt, M., and Levine, S. (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-tems , volume 36, pp. 46595–46623. Curran Associates, Inc., 2023. Zhong, L., Wu, J., Li, Q., Peng, H., and Wu, X. A Com-prehensive Survey on Automatic Knowledge Graph Con-struction. ACM Comput. Surv. , 56(4), November 2023. ISSN 0360-0300. doi: 10.1145/3618295. 10 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

A. Box plots 

(a) LLM-as-a-Judge, WikiQA (language match) (b) LLM-as-a-Judge, WikiQA (language mismatch) 

(c) Soft EM, WikiQA (language match) (d) Soft EM, WikiQA (language mismatch) 

(e) LLM-as-a-Judge, HotpotQA (language match) (f) LLM-as-a-Judge, HotpotQA (language mismatch) 

(g) Soft EM, HotpotQA (language match) (h) Soft EM, HotpotQA (language mismatch) 

(i) LLM-as-a-Judge, BenchEE (language match) (j) LLM-as-a-Judge, BenchEE (language mismatch) 

Figure 4. Performance evaluation across different datasets and metrics. Results are shown for WikiQA, HotpotQA, and BenchEE datasets using the scores obtained with LLM-as-a-Judge and Soft EM, comparing language match vs. language mismatch conditions. 

11 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

B. Prompts 

This appendix provides the full set of prompts used in our experiments. Translation Prompt (Preprocessing) 

---Role---You are a system that translates the given text or question from any language into {language}. ---Goal---Translate the given text or question into clear and accurate {language}. DO NOT RESPOND OR ADD FABRICATED DETAILS! ---Output---The output must not include quotation marks, formatting symbols, or any commentary. The output must be plain text only. ---Important---DO NOT ANSWER! The translation should be in {language}. If the given text is already in {language}, just return it. 

Chunk Summarization Prompt (Preprocessing) 

---Role---You are a system that summarize the given text chunk. ---Goal---Produce a clear, concise, and comprehensive summary of the provided text chunk. Preserve all relevant facts, data, and context necessary for full understanding. Eliminate redundancy and avoid unnecessary elaboration. In case of a question, DO NOT ANSWER! ---Context---{context} ---Output---Output must be plain text only, without formatting symbols, commentary, or quotations. 

Triple Extraction Prompt (Map) 

# Knowledge Graph Instructions ## 1. Overview You are a top-tier algorithm designed for extracting information in structured formats to build a knowledge graph. Try to capture as much information from the text as possible without sacrificing accuracy. Do not add any information that is not explicitly mentioned in the text. - **Nodes** represent entities and concepts. - The aim is to achieve simplicity and clarity in the knowledge graph, making it accessible for a vast audience. ## 2. Labeling Nodes - **Consistency**: Ensure you use available types for node labels. Ensure you use basic or elementary types for node labels. - For example, when you identify an entity representing a person, always label it as **’person’**. Avoid using more specific terms like ’mathematician’ or ’scientist’. - **Node IDs**: Never utilize integers as node IDs. Node IDs should be names or human-readable identifiers found in the text. - **Relationships** represent connections between entities or concepts. Ensure consistency and generality in relationship types when constructing knowledge graphs. Instead of using specific and momentary types such as ’BECAME_PROFESSOR’, use more general and timeless relationship types like ’PROFESSOR’. Make sure to use general and timeless relationship types! ## 3. Coreference Resolution - **Maintain Entity Consistency**: When extracting entities, it’s vital to ensure consistency. If an entity, such as "John Doe", is mentioned multiple times in the text but is referred to by different names or pronouns (e.g., "Joe", "he"), always use the most complete identifier for that entity throughout the knowledge graph. In this example, use "John Doe" as the entity ID. Remember, the knowledge graph should be coherent and easily understandable, so maintaining consistency in entity references is crucial. ## 4. Strict Compliance Adhere to the rules strictly. Non-compliance will result in termination. Ensure that: - No detail is omitted, even if implicit or inferred - Compound or nested relationships are captured - Temporal, causal, or hierarchical links are included (e.g., Crime And Punishment (1998 Film) produces Crime And Punishment HAS_YEAR 1988) - Synonyms or aliases are noted if present (e.g., Cornelia "Lia" Melis produces Cornelia Melis HAS_ALIAS Lia) - Types are noted and correctly separed from the entity names (e.g., Crime And Punishment (Film) produces Crime And Punishment as entity name and Film as type) - Prefer short and concise node and relationship names instead of keeping names (e.g., Crime and Punishment (Spanish: Crimen y castigo) produces Crime and Punishment HAS_SPANISH_TITLE Crimen y castigo) - Do not merge multi-word entities into single tokens (e.g., prefer Class A instead of ClassA) Tip: Make sure to answer in the correct format and do not include any explanations. Use the given format to extract information from the following input: {input} 

12 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Entity Comparator Prompt (Disambiguation) 

---Role---You are a system that determines whether two given entities represent the same concept or item. ---Goal---Return "SAME" if the entities refer to the same concept, even if they differ in grammatical number, formatting, or minor variations (e.g., "Deduction" vs "Deductions", "Microwave" vs "Microwaves"). Return "DIFFERENT" if the entities differ in meaning, quantity, time span, or any other substantive attribute (e.g., "6H day" vs "8H day", "1 March 31 December" vs "1 March 15 December"). Focus on core meaning, not surface form. ---Context---{context} ---Output---Plain text only: either "SAME" or "DIFFERENT" with no formatting, commentary, or explanation. 

New Entity Name Selector Prompt (Disambiguation) 

---Role---You are a system that selects the most representative name between two given entities. ---Goal---Return the entity name that best represents the shared concept between the two inputs. If both refer to the same concept, choose the version that is: - Singular (not plural) - Shorter in length - More general or canonical If the entities differ in meaning, return the one that is more representative or commonly used. If neither entity name is sufficiently representative, you may select a different name that is not among the two inputs, as long as it best captures the shared concept and is expressed in English. ---Context---{context} ---Output---Plain text only: the selected entity name with no formatting, commentary, or explanation. 

Triple Description Prompt (Enrich) 

---Role---You are a system that generates concise descriptions of RDF triples using the context provided in a given text chunks. ---Goal---Generate concise and informative descriptions for the given triple based on the provided text chunks. The descriptions should not include any information that is not present in the provided text chunks. The descriptions should include all relevant information from the chunks that help characterize the triple. The descriptions should be in English. The descriptions should be in the format "description" without quotes. ---Chunks---{chunks} 

Entity Summarization Prompt (Reduce) 

---Role---You are a system that generates concise descriptions of RDF entities using the context provided in a given text chunks. ---Goal---Generate concise and informative descriptions for the given entity based on the provided text chunks. The descriptions should not include any information that is not present in the provided text chunks. The descriptions should include all relevant information from the chunks that helps characterize the entity. The descriptions should be in English. The descriptions should be in the format "description" without quotes. ---Chunks---{chunks} 

13 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Semantic Triple Decomposition Prompt (Decompose) 

---Role---You are a linguistic analysis system. ---Goal---Your task is to receive a user’s question and extract information in structured formats to query a knowledge graph: 1. head: the entities or concepts the question is about. 2. relationship: the actions, states, or relations expressed in the question. 3. tail: the targets or complements of the relationships. It will then be retrieved in the knowledge graph. For each question: - Write separate sentences that clearly state the head(s), relationship(s), and tail(s) needed to answer. - Do not answer the question. Only decompose it into its logical components. - Use consistent, knowledge-graph-friendly phrasing (no extra words like "the head is..."). - Use simple, explicit {language} language. - If multiple questions are asked, produce one sentence per question. - Use ‘X‘, ‘Y‘, ‘Z‘ as the placeholders for unknown tails. - Support multi-hop relationships: When the question refers to a property of an entity that is itself obtained through another relation, produce multiple sentences, one per hop. Each hop must be expressed as its own knowledge-graph triple. - DO NOT RESPOND OR ADD FABRICATED DETAILS! ---Important---DO NOT ANSWER! ---Examples---Input Questions: "Who wrote Hamlet? What is the capital of France?" Output Sentences: (Hamlet, WROTE_BY, X) (France, HAS_CAPITAL, Y) ---Input Questions: "Who painted the Mona Lisa? Where is Mount Everest located? What language is spoken in Brazil?" Output Sentences: (Mona Lisa, PAINTED_BY, X) (Mount Everest, LOCATED_IN, Y) (Brazil, SPEAKS_LANGUAGE, Z) ---Input Questions: "Who died later, Hammond Innes or Adrian Solomons?" Output Sentences: (Hammond Innes, DIED_IN, X) (Adrian Solomons, DIED_IN, Y) ---Multi-Hop Examples---Input: "What is the place of birth of the director of film Radio Stars On Parade?" Output: (Radio Stars On Parade, HAS_DIRECTOR, X) (X, BORN_IN, Y) ---Input: "What is the nationality of the author of The Name of the Rose?" Output: (The Name of the Rose, HAS_AUTHOR, X) (X, HAS_NATIONALITY, Y) 

14 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Iterative Placeholder Resolution Prompt (Resolve) 

---Role---You are an entity-relation reasoning assistant. You work with triples in the form (Subject, Relation, Object). ---Task---- You will be given a list of triples and a context containing KG results. - You have to check if the triples can be updated using the context. - If a triple contains a placeholder (e.g., "X", "Y", "Z"), replace it with the actual entity name from the context. - Always output the updated current triple in the format: (Subject, Relation, Object). - Do not invent entities; only use those explicitly given in the context. - DO NOT ADD FABRICATED DETAILS! ---Examples---Input triples: (In Our Lifetime, PERFORMED_BY, X) (X, FATHER, Y) Context: In Our Lifetime | In Our Lifetime is a song by Marvin Gaye... Output triple: (In Our Lifetime, PERFORMED_BY, Marvin Gaye) (Marvin Gaye, FATHER, Y) ---Input triples: (The Hobbit, WRITTEN_BY, X) (X, BORN_IN, Y) Context: The Hobbit | The Hobbit is a fantasy novel written by J. R. R. Tolkien... Output triple: (The Hobbit, WRITTEN_BY, J. R. R. Tolkien) (J. R. R. Tolkien, BORN_IN, Y) ---Input triples: (Starry Night, CREATED_BY, X) (X, SIBLING, Y) Context: Starry Night | Starry Night is a painting by Vincent van Gogh... Output triple: (Starry Night, CREATED_BY, Vincent van Gogh) (Vincent van Gogh, SIBLING, Y) ---Context---{context} 

Response Generation Prompt 

---Role---You are a helpful assistant responding to questions about data in the tables provided. Answer in {language} ---Goal---Generate a response in {language} that responds to the user’s question, summarizing all information in the input data tables. If you don’t know the answer, just say so. Do not make anything up. Points supported by data should be based on the provided input data tables as follows: "This is an example sentence supported by multiple documents." For example: "Person X is the owner of Company Y and subject to many allegations of wrongdoing." Do not include information where the supporting evidence for it is not provided. ---Data tables---{context_data} ---Target response length and format---Answer in {language} in with a {answer_length} format of the text. Answer to the question ONLY. 

15 MDER-DR: Multi-Hop Question Answering with Entity-Centric Summaries 

Retrieval Failed Response Generation Prompt 

---Role---You are a helpful assistant responding to questions about data in the tables provided. {"Single paragraph"} Answer in {language} Answer that you do not have data to handle the user questions. 

LLM-only Generation Prompt 

---Role---You answer questions. Respond in {language}. ---Goal---Give a direct answer in {language}. If unsure, say you don’t know. Never invent information. ---Target response length and format---Reply EXTREMELY BRIEFLY in {language}. Provide only the answer. 

QA Pairs Translation Prompt 

--- Goal ---Translate the provided question{answer pair into {language}. --- Task ---You are a rigorous translator tasked with translating the provided question{answer pair into {language}. --- Rules ---- Translate the given question and answer into {language}. - Do not answer the translated question in any way. - Do not add anything to the translated question or answer. - Do not add quotation marks to the translated question or answer. - Keep intact any names, titles, etc. that are in a foreign language. --- Important ---WHILE YOU TRANSLATE INTO {language}, DO NOT ANSWER THE QUESTION IN ANY WAY! --- Output Format ---Respond only with the following format: Question: <question translated into {language}> Answer: <answer translated into {language}> --- Input ---Question: {question} Answer: {answer} 

LLM-as-judge Evaluation Prompt 

--- Goal ---Evaluate the quality of a response generated by a RAG in a question answering task. --- Task ---You are a rigorous evaluator tasked with assigning a score from 0 to 10 to the RAG response. --- Criteria ---- Relevance of the response: Does the RAG response directly address the user’s question? - Faithfulness to the expected answer: Does the RAG response match the reference answer without adding invented or contradictory information? --- Rules ---- If the RAG response is absent or states that the information is not available, assign 0. - If the RAG response is off-topic or not relevant to the question, assign a low score. - If the RAG response contradicts the expected answer or invents information, assign a low score. - If the RAG response suggests that the documents do not provide any useful information for the question, assign a low score. - If the RAG response is correct, complete, sourced on the documents, and well aligned with the expected answer, assign ahigh score. --- Output Format ---Answer using only the following format: Score: <number from 0 to 10> Justification: <brief explanation of the score> --- Input ---Question: {question} Expected Answer: {expected} RAG Response: {generated} 

16