Title: AutoRAGTuner: A Declarative Framework for Automatic Optimization of RAG Pipelines

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.02967v1

Published Time: Wed, 06 May 2026 00:02:51 GMT

Number of Pages: 2

Markdown Content:
# AutoRAGTuner: A Declarative Framework for Automatic Optimization of RAG Pipelines 

Xintan Zeng, Yongchao Liu, Yice Luo, Jiajun Zheng 

Ant Group, China 

{xintan.zxt,yongchao.ly,luoyice.lyc}@antgroup.com,zhengjiajun@gmail.com 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) enhances LLMs, but performance is highly sensitive to complex architecture de-signs and hyper-parameter configurations, which currently rely on inefficient manual tuning. We present AutoRAG-Tuner , a declarative, configuration-driven framework that automates the RAG life-cycle: construction, execution, eval-uation, and optimization. AutoRAGTuner employs a modu-lar architecture to decouple pipeline stages through a com-ponent registration mechanism. To unify heterogeneous data, we introduce the Domain-Element Model (DEM) ,representing objects as atomic elements with bidirectional pointers to support nodes, edges, and hyperedges. Further-more, AutoRAGTuner integrates an adaptive Bayesian op-timization engine for end-to-end hyper-parameter tuning. Experimental results demonstrate AutoRAGTuner’s archi-tectural generality: across diverse RAG pipelines—ranging from vanilla to graph-based—the framework consistently outperforms default baselines. Notably, AutoRAGTuner sig-nificantly mitigates engineering overhead, where its declara-tive configuration language enables a up to 95% reduction in code churn for architectural adjustments. Overall, AutoR-AGTuner provides a systematically optimizable foundation for building evolvable and reusable RAG systems. 

1 Background and Motivation 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) improves the quality of LLM answer by leveraging external knowledge bases [ 1] . However, the performance of a typical RAG pipeline is highly sensitive to its structure and hyper-parameters. Manual tun-ing faces two primary challenges: (1) a single modification often forces upstream and downstream code to recouple, requiring re-debugging of the entire pipeline, resulting in low efficiency; (2) there is no unified, declarative way to de-fine pipeline structure and hyper-parameters, making them difficult to standardize, reuse, or reproduce. Recent work on automated RAG optimization, such as AutoRAG [ 2 ] , employs greedy algorithms to optimize hyper-parameters across various modules, including query expan-sion, retrieval, and generation. AutoRAG-HP [ 3 ] models hyper-parameter selection as a hierarchical multi-armed ban-dit problem to achieve more flexible online hyper-parameter tuning. However, these frameworks treat RAG pipelines as fixed structures. This structural rigidity hinders native sup-port for more sophisticated retrieval strategies, such as the complex graph topologies required for multi-hop reasoning. 

Figure 1. System overview of AutoRAGTuner. Moreover, any architectural adjustment typically requires invasive code refactoring. In contrast, AutoRAGTuner enables hyper-parameter ex-ploration within a flexible architectural search space via declarative orchestration. By unifying heterogeneous data modeling, it supports diverse retrieval strategies, filling the gap in architectural flexibility and strategy diversity while providing a standardized, replayable, and optimizable frame-work for RAG optimization. 

2 System Implementation 

As shown in Figure 1, AutoRAGTuner is built on a modu-lar architecture where pipeline stages are decoupled via a component registration mechanism. All components follow a unified interface contract and can be implemented either in C++ or Python, enabling a practical trade-off between performance and rapid feature development. To enable an "Edit-and-Run" paradigm without recom-pilation, AutoRAGTuner provides a declarative JSON or-chestration language (Figure 2). Developers specify the pipeline composition and optimization strategies through configuration fragments, allowing structural adjustments without modifying the underlying codebase. To minimize stage coupling, AutoRAGTuner introduces the Domain-Element Model (DEM). DEM abstracts hetero-geneous retrieval objects (e.g., text chunks, entities, relations) as Atomic Elements . Each element contains basic attributes (e.g., ID, weight) and an extensible property set. DEM intro-duces bidirectional pointers, allowing an element to function as an independent node or a container for multiple children to form edges or multidimensional hyperedges. These rela-tions are declared via the Domain configuration in a JSON specification (e.g., declaring an entity element as a child of a chunk element), and materialized by corresponding compo-nents as edges stored in DEM. This unified representation supports both hierarchical structures and complex graph topologies within a single abstraction.  

> 1
> arXiv:2605.02967v1 [cs.LG] 3 May 2026 , , Xintan Zeng, Yongchao Liu, Yice Luo, Jiajun Zheng

Figure 2. An example JSON configuration for declarative orchestration in AutoRAGTuner. DEM uses Domain as a logical partition to group and manage elements. Through JSON declarations, developers can define relationships across domains and trigger domain-specific vector indexing for semantic retrieval. At runtime, components share data via a unified data bus to maintain end-to-end consistency and life-cycle management. Thus, component-level changes do not require upstream or down-stream refactoring. For optimization, AutoRAGTuner integrates an adaptive 

Bayesian autotuning engine for end-to-end optimization. It employs a hybrid strategy, starting with random explo-ration to establish a prior, followed by exploitation guided by an acquisition function based on Expected Improvement 

to focus on high-potential regions. To minimize computa-tional costs, the engine supports epsilon-convergence and maximum iteration limits, alongside warm-start capabilities to reuse previous observation traces. 

3 Preliminary Results 

We assess AutoRAGTuner based on three criteria: Recall@5 (R@5), 𝐹 1 score, and tuning efficiency. To demonstrate archi-tectural generality, we implement two representative RAG pipelines: a standard Vanilla RAG based on the "retrieve-and-generate" paradigm, and a complex Graph RAG [ 4]named HippoRAG [ 5 ]. Our experiments employ Kimi-K2-Instruct-0905 as the LLM and Qwen3-Embedding-4B as the retriever. For Vanilla RAG, we declare two key hyper-parameters for automated optimization: the chunk size and the overlap ratio during the indexing phase, with the unchunked config-uration as the baseline. For HippoRAG, we declare three key 

Figure 3. Performance improvement with AutoRAGTuner. V-Base/V-Opt refer to the baseline and optimized Vanilla RAG, with G-Base/G-Opt to the baseline and optimized HippoRAG. 

Table 1. Efficiency Comparison.        

> Method Code Changes (LOC) Time (Debug + Tuning) Manual Tuning ≥1000 1 Day + 2 Weeks AutoRAGTuner ≤50 ≈10 Hours

hyper-parameters accordingly: the cosine similarity thresh-old for synonym relationship construction during indexing, the cosine similarity threshold for linking similar entities during retrieval, and the damping factor in the Personal-ized PageRank (PPR) algorithm. The baseline of HippoRAG follows the official settings from its original paper. Optimiza-tion is conducted using 200 HotPotQA [ 6 ] training samples, with evaluation on 1,000 development samples each from HotPotQA and 2WikiMultiHopQA [7]. Figure 3 underscores AutoRAGTuner’s architectural gen-erality and the efficacy of its automated optimization. Across diverse pipelines, the framework achieves robust gains of 5% to 8% in R@5, with 𝐹 1 scores improving by up to 4%. Be-yond quality improvements, Table 1 highlights the agility of AutoRAGTuner to support architectural evolution. Un-like manual tuning, which requires invasive code refactor-ing, AutoRAGTuner abstracts pipeline orchestration into a declarative, configuration-driven layer. Using unified data ab-stractions to isolate structural dependencies, the framework effectively minimizes engineering overhead. In conclusion, AutoRAGTuner provides a robust foundation for evolvable and systematically optimizable RAG pipelines. 

References