Title: Neuro-Symbolic Financial Reasoning via Deterministic Fact Ledgers and Adversarial Low-Latency Hallucination Detector

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.04663v1

Published Time: Fri, 06 Mar 2026 01:16:18 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# Neuro-Symbolic Financial Reasoning via Deterministic Fact Ledgers and Adversarial Low-Latency Hallucination Detector 

Pedram Agand ∗

FactAI Lab, Vancouver, BC, Canada 

pagand@gofactai.com 

Abstract 

Standard Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) architectures fail in high-stakes financial domains due to two fundamental limitations: the inherent arithmetic in-competence of Large Language Models (LLMs) and the distributional semantic conflation of dense vector retrieval (e.g., mapping “Net Income” to “Net Sales” due to contextual proximity). In deterministic domains, a 99% accuracy rate yields 0% operational trust. To achieve zero-hallucination financial reasoning, we intro-duce the Verifiable Numerical Reasoning Agent (VeNRA). VeNRA shifts the RAG paradigm from retrieving probabilistic text to retrieving deterministic variables via a strictly typed Universal Fact Ledger (UFL), mathematically bounded by a novel Double-Lock Grounding algorithm. Recognizing that upstream parsing anomalies inevitably occur, we introduce the VeNRA Sentinel: a 3-billion parameter SLM trained to forensically audit Python execution traces with only one token test bud-get. To train this model, we avoid traditional generative hallucination datasets in favor of Adversarial Simulation , programmatically sabotaging golden financial records to simulate production-level “Ecological Errors” (e.g., Logic Code Lies and Numeric Neighbor Traps). Finally, to optimize the Sentinel under strict la-tency budgets, we utilize a single-pass classification paradigm with optional post thinking for debug. We identify the phenomenon of Loss Dilution in Reverse-Chain-of-Thought training and present a novel, OOM-safe Micro-Chunking loss algorithm to stabilize gradients under extreme differential penalization. 

1 Introduction 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has become the standard for open-domain Question An-swering (QA) and is widely regarded as the leading paradigm for grounding AI outputs in source material Dadopoulos et al. [2025]. However, its deployment in high-stakes, deterministic domains, specifically financial auditing, remains stalled by a phenomenon we term Stochastic Inaccuracy . In these environments, an accuracy rate of 99% yields 0% operational trust if the 1% error constitutes a sign-convention inversion on a balance sheet or a temporal hallucination in a compliance report. In fact, as PHANTOM demonstrates, financial QA demands exact numerical precision; even minor errors can critically undermine trust Ji et al. [2025]. This friction arises from two fundamental architectural mismatches. First, dense vector retrieval models rely on distributional semantics . Consequently, they frequently map mathematically oppo-site terms (e.g., “Net Income” vs. “Net Loss”) to proximate vectors due to their identical linguistic contexts, leading to catastrophic retrieval conflation. Basic dense retrieval often fails to fetch the correct evidence in financial documents Dadopoulos et al. [2025], and general-purpose embeddings 

> ∗

Research conducted in FactAI Lab available at https://gofactai.com 

> arXiv:2603.04663v1 [cs.LG] 4 Mar 2026

Figure 1: The VeNRA Neuro-Symbolic Paradigm. (Top) Standard RAG suffers from “Stochastic Inaccuracy” due to probabilistic arithmetic and vector conflation. (Bottom) VeNRA parses PDFs into a Universal Fact Ledger (UFL). A Query Navigator retrieves specific variables via a Lexical Gate. An Architect LLM generates a deterministic Python trace ( T ). Crucially, the 3B Sentinel model forensically audits the logic trace before surfacing the answer. struggle with finance-specific terms (e.g., “short” vs. “long”) Anderson and Koudas [2024], con-sistent with our observation of conflating semantically opposite terms. Second, Large Language Models (LLMs) operate as probabilistic next-token predictors, not arithmetic engines. When tasked with financial reasoning, they simulate the syntax of calculation without preserving its mathemati-cal invariants, resulting in plausible-sounding but factually baseless figures Wang et al. [2025]. As noted in recent work, LLMs inherently struggle with tasks requiring exact computation Chang et al. [2025], producing outputs that sound plausible but violate arithmetic invariants. Current methodologies to mitigate these hallucinations rely on two fragile pillars: parametric scal-ing (utilizing frontier models with higher parameters) and generative evaluation benchmarks (e.g., HaluEval). Both are insufficient for production financial systems. Frontier models introduce pro-hibitive latency ( > 2000 ms), rendering them unusable for real-time guardrails. In practice, GPT-4 with retrieval often fails on finance questions (81% error/refusal rate) Islam et al. [2023], and feed-ing longer contexts only yields marginal gains with unacceptable latency Islam et al. [2023]. More critically, current evaluation benchmarks rely almost exclusively on Generative Noise , prompting an LLM to invent an error. For example, the HaluEval benchmark generates false answers via an LLM perturbation framework Li et al. [2023], producing semantically obvious, structurally lazy lies (“Strawman Hallucinations”). Real-world financial agents do not fail by inventing fictitious corpo-rate acquisitions; they fail via Ecological Errors : precise mechanical failures such as selecting an adjacent temporal column in a table (Numeric Neighbor Traps) or executing correct Python logic on incorrect variable extractions (Logic Code Lies). Indeed, financial hallucinations often follow specific patterns (numerical miscalculations, temporal shifts, etc.) Tan et al. [2025], which generic benchmarks do not capture. In this paper, we argue that reliable financial AI cannot be achieved purely through parametric scal-ing or generative evaluation. Instead, it requires Neuro-Symbolic Cognitive Offloading and Forensic Auditing . We introduce the VeNRA 2 (Verifiable Numerical Reasoning Agent) framework, an end-to-end ecosystem designed to prevent, simulate, and detect financial hallucinations. To mitigate 

hallucinations, VeNRA replaces unstructured text retrieval with the Universal Fact Ledger (UFL). By strictly extracting text into typed variables backed by Double-Lock Grounding (requiring both character-offset alignment and semantic schema validation), and gating semantic retrieval with deter-ministic lexical constraints, we relegate the LLM entirely to the role of a deterministic Python code architect. To detect slipped hallucinations, we introduce the VeNRA Sentinel , a locally deployable 

3-B parameter SLM capable of auditing complex mathematical traces in < 50 ms, zero-shot, zero 

> 2The code is available in Github: https://github.com/pagand/VeNRA

2test-time compute. To train the Sentinel, we pioneer Adversarial Simulation , rejecting generative noise in favor of VeNRA-Data : a 10,000-sample dataset constructed by programmatically sabotag-ing golden financial records to recreate the exact mechanical failures of production RAG systems. To optimize the Sentinel for zero-latency inference, we adopt a “Label-First” generation paradigm. We identify the phenomenon of Loss Dilution in Reverse-Chain-of-Thought training, where the gra-dient signal of the verdict token is overwhelmed by the subsequent reasoning tokens. To solve this, and to prevent Vocabulary Out-Of-Memory (OOM) errors caused by massive differential weighting, we present a novel Micro-Chunking Trainer . This algorithm bounds VRAM usage to O(c · | V |)

rather than sequence length, enabling stable training of highly discriminative judges on consumer hardware. In summary, our main contributions are: • Neuro-Symbolic Architecture: The Universal Fact Ledger (UFL) with Double-Lock Grounding and Lexical Pre-Filtering, virtually eliminating extraction hallucination and dis-tributional vector conflation. • Adversarial Simulation (VeNRA-Data) 3: A novel methodology for generating rigorous hallucination benchmarks via deterministic sabotage (e.g., Logic Code Lies), evaluated via a strict Hybrid-Family splitting protocol to prevent dataset leakage. • Forensic Auditing Systems Engineering 4: The VeNRA Sentinel, a 3B parameter judge achieving low latency verification. We contribute the OOM-safe Micro-Chunking Trainer, mathematically solving the gradient dilution problem in Reverse-CoT architectures. 

2 Background and Related Work 

Neural RAG has become the standard architecture for knowledge-intensive tasks Lewis et al. [2020]. However, its application in high-stakes, deterministic domains such as financial auditing reveals sys-tematic mismatches between probabilistic language modeling and strict numerical reasoning. While existing literature addresses financial QA benchmarks, hallucination detection, and neuro-symbolic execution in isolation, VeNRA integrates these streams to address the specific failure modes of pro-duction financial systems. 

2.1 Failures of Dense Retrieval in Finance 

Classical RAG architectures rely on dense vector retrieval (e.g., DPR, ColBERT) to map queries to evidence Karpukhin et al. [2020], Khattab and Zaharia [2020]. While effective for encyclopedic semantic matching, these models suffer from distributional conflation in financial contexts. Embed-dings optimized for semantic similarity frequently cluster mathematically opposite terms (e.g., “A owes B” vs. “B owes A”) due to identical linguistic contexts Thakur et al. [2021]. Furthermore, re-cent studies on FinanceBench demonstrate that generic embedding models struggle with the precise temporal and entity alignment required for 10-K filings, where the answer often hinges on distin-guishing “2022” from “2021” within dense tabular structures Islam et al. [2023]. VeNRA addresses this by shifting from pure semantic retrieval to a hybrid Lexical-Semantic Gate, prioritizing deter-ministic token overlap for discriminative financial variables. 

2.2 Numerical Reasoning and Neuro-Symbolic Agents 

Large Language Models (LLMs) act as probabilistic next-token predictors, often failing to maintain arithmetic invariants during text generation Patel et al. [2021]. To mitigate this, recent work has pivoted toward neuro-symbolic methods. Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting Wei et al. [2022] im-proves reasoning but remains prone to calculation errors. Program-Aided Language Models (PAL) and Program of Thoughts (PoT) advance this by delegating computation to an external Python inter-preter Gao et al. [2023], Chen et al. [2022]. However, benchmarks like FinQA Chen et al. [2021] and TAT-QA Zhu et al. [2021] reveal that even code-generating models struggle with grounding ; frequently executing correct logic on hallucinated input variables. VeNRA extends the PAL paradigm by enforcing a stricter separation of concerns: 

> 3https://huggingface.co/datasets/pagand/venra
> 4https://huggingface.co/spaces/pagand/VeNRA_halDet

3the LLM acts solely as a Code Architect operating over a strictly typed Universal Fact Ledger (UFL), preventing the injection of unsupported scalars into the computation graph. 

2.3 Hallucination Benchmarks: Generative vs. Ecological 

The evaluation of hallucinations has largely relied on datasets generated via LLM perturbation. Benchmarks like HaluEval Li et al. [2023] and TruthfulQA Lin et al. [2022a] use strong models to rewrite factual sentences into plausible falsehoods. While scalable, this method produces “Semantic Noise”, hallucinations that are often linguistically distinct from the source. In contrast, financial hallucinations are often mechanical : a column shift in a table or a unit swap (e.g., millions to bil-lions). These “Ecological Errors” are underrepresented in generative benchmarks. New benchmarks like FinTextQA and FINDER have been proposed to capture more realistic, expert-level financial queries Dadopoulos et al. [2025], Chen et al. [2024], Choi and Kim [2025], yet they focus primar-ily on QA accuracy rather than auditing execution traces. VeNRA-Data diverges from prior work by using Adversarial Simulation , deterministic programmatic sabotage of execution traces, rather than generative rewriting, aligning closer to Red Teaming methodologies Ganguli et al. [2022] than traditional QA dataset creation. 

2.4 LLM-as-a-Judge and Low-Latency Auditing 

Using LLMs as judges to evaluate RAG outputs is a burgeoning field Zheng et al. [2024]. However, most “Judge” architectures rely on frontier models (e.g., GPT-4) which incur multi-second laten-cies, associated cost, privacy concern, inconsistency, prompt sensitivity, bias, etc rendering them unsuitable for real-time guardrails Kim et al. [2023]. Furthermore, standard instruction tuning for these judges optimizes for fluent rationales rather than calibrated classification, leading to “syco-phancy” Sharma et al. [2023]. VeNRAs Sentinel model contributes to the growing literature on efficient Small Language Models (SLMs) Gunasekar et al. [2023] and single-pass classification. By utilizing a “Label-First” paradigm to tether gradients and a novel Micro-Chunking loss to manage vocabulary memory, we demonstrate that a 3B parameter model can achieve frontier-level auditing performance with single token test-time budget, overcoming the latency-accuracy trade-off inherent in prior LLM-as-a-Judge work. 

2.5 The Long-Context Fallacy 

Finally, VeNRA challenges the assumption that expanding context windows (e.g., to 128k tokens) solves retrieval challenges. Consistent with the “lost-in-the-middle” phenomenon, LLMs often over-look information buried deep in long contexts Liu et al. [2024], which is critical for footnotes in 10-K filings. VeNRAs Double-Lock Grounding and Prompt Bookending strategies explicitly miti-gate this by structuring the context via the UFL rather than relying on the models raw attention span over unstructured text. 

3 The VeNRA Architecture: Grounded Neuro-Symbolic RAG 

Standard RAG architectures model high-stakes QA as a purely probabilistic sequence generation task. In deterministic domains such as finance, this paradigm induces stochastic inaccuracy : LLMs simulate the syntax of mathematics rather than computing it, and dense vector embeddings fre-quently conflate mathematically opposite but contextually proximate terms (e.g., “Deferred Rev-enue” vs. “Realized Revenue”). To mitigate these fundamental flaws, we introduce VeNRA to shift the RAG paradigm from “Retriev-ing Text” to “Retrieving Variables”. Rather than forcing a single LLM to simultaneously act as a semantic search engine, an unstructured parser, and an arithmetic calculator, VeNRA strictly decou-ples these cognitive burdens. Unstructured documents are deterministically parsed into a strongly typed Universal Fact Ledger (UFL), mathematically grounded, and subsequently queried by an LLM constrained strictly to Python code generation. 43.1 Structure-Preserving Ingestion and the Universal Fact Ledger 

The Universal Fact Ledger (UFL) serves as the foundational data contract for the VeNRA ecosystem, acting simultaneously as a computational table for arithmetic and a relational graph for semantic traversal. To populate the UFL from unstructured 10-K filings without succumbing to “Context Rot” Hong et al. [2025], the loss of structural lineage and coreference, we employ a deterministic ingestion pipeline. 

Trailing-Buffer Semantic Chunking. Standard recursive chunking mechanisms frequently sever cross-boundary coreferences (e.g., a table row referencing “See Note 12”, where the note text resides in the subsequent chunk). To preserve localized context, we developed a newline-preference trailing-buffer algorithm. Let Ci be the i-th chunk of text, bounded by a character threshold τ = 3000 .Rather than splitting at an arbitrary character index, the algorithm splits at the most recent newline character. For every generated text block Ci, a trailing buffer bi−1 consisting of the final k = 300 

characters of the preceding block Ci−1 is injected as a prefix: 

C′ 

> i

= [ Previous Context: bi−1] ⊕ Ci (1) Crucially, table structures also update this rolling buffer. Because financial table headers carry es-sential scalar context (e.g., “in millions”), propagating the table’s raw tail into the subsequent prose chunk allows the extraction model to successfully resolve anaphoric scalar references. 

Deterministic Table Melting. Generative LLMs exhibit severe unreliability when extracting 2D grid data Zhu et al. [2021]. Consequently, VeNRA bypasses LLM extraction for tables entirely, em-ploying deterministic Pandas routines. Raw markdown tables are parsed using a hierarchical disam-biguation stack. Indentation markers (e.g., &nbsp; ) are computed to generate fully qualified schema paths (e.g., Assets > Current Assets > Inventory ), preventing the collapse of distinct sub-categories into ambiguous metrics like “Other.” Furthermore, row-level overrides dynamically intercept global column scale factors; metrics containing substrings such as “per share” enforce a 1.0 multiplier and a unit classification of USD/Share , ensuring mathematical invariants are preserved. 

3.2 Double-Lock Grounding and Post-Hoc Alignment 

The primary vulnerability of JSON-constrained LLM extraction is the generation of unsupported numerical values. To solve the “Generator vs. Extractor” dilemma, we force the generative model to provide a grounding_quote (q), the verbatim substring from the source chunk ( C) that justifies the extracted scalar ( v). Every extracted fact undergoes a rigorous Double-Lock Grounding protocol. 

Lock 1: Mechanical Quote Grounding. The algorithm attempts to physically map the quote q to exact character offsets in C. Standard normalized sequence matching algorithms (e.g., difflib )over entire text chunks were discarded; we observed that sequence matching against a large denom-inator (e.g., a 3000-character chunk) asymptotically approaches 0, rendering it empirically useless for isolated numeric verification. Instead, we use a three-tier fallback: • Tier 1 (Exact Match): An O(n) character-exact substring search, followed by a whitespace-normalized pass (collapsing \s+ to a single space) to account for LLM-induced spacing artifacts. • Tier 2 (Partial Match): The aligner extracts the longest contiguous numeric token qnum 

from q (e.g., “615” from “$615 million”) and searches for it verbatim, verifying the scalar value independently of surrounding text hallucination. • Tier 3 (Fuzzy Sliding-Window): A sliding window W of tokens is passed over C. We deliberately avoid Jaccard Similarity, which heavily penalizes the intersection due to the large union of the document window ( |W | ≫ | q|). Instead, we compute a fast token intersection based on Recall: R = |q∩W ||q| . If R > 0.55 , the window is refined with a localized character-matching algorithm. If all three tiers fail, the fact is stamped UNALIGNED , confidence is set to 0.0, and the scalar is restricted from downstream execution. 

Lock 2: Semantic Metric Grounding. Mechanical grounding prevents invented numbers, but it does not prevent “Phantom Metrics”, a hallucination where an LLM assigns a verifiably real number 5to a fabricated metric name. Let M be the set of core tokens in the generated metric name, excluding general financial stop-words (e.g., “net”, “total”, “ratio”). Let TC be the set of tokens in the source chunk. The semantic overlap score is defined as s = |M ∩TC ||M | . If s < τ sem (where τsem = 0 .30 ), the fact is rejected as a semantic hallucination, successfully preventing the model from assigning orphaned numbers to hallucinatory schemas. 

3.3 Schema-Driven Cognitive Offloading 

A persistent challenge in applied LLM engineering is “prompt overfitting”, attempting to handle infinite edge cases via increasingly complex system instructions. In finance, edge cases include dynamic formulas (e.g., “floating rate equal to SOFR plus 2.25%” ) and covenants (e.g., “leverage ratio not exceeding 3.50” ). A naive prompt instructing the LLM to differentiate these leads to downstream mathematical catastrophes when the LLM extracts “2.25” as a fixed interest rate. VeNRA introduces Schema-Driven Cognitive Offloading . Rather than relying on conditional logic in the prompt, we leverage the LLM’s inherent pre-training in taxonomy by introducing a Pydantic classification enum: fact_type ∈ {ACTUAL, LIMIT, FORMULA} . Once the model classifies the fact via constrained decoding, deterministic Python post-processing handles the operational logic. For FORMULA types, the system forcefully nullifies the float ( num_value = None ). This creates a critical safety boundary: when the Code Agent later queries the UFL, it encounters a None type and reads the formula string in the text_nuance metadata, preventing it from executing arithmetic on a partial floating rate. For LIMIT types, the system automatically appends the suffix [Limit] to the metric name, preserving the strict ontological boundary between an actual performance metric and a legal constraint. 

3.4 Hybrid Lexical-Semantic Retrieval 

Once the Universal Fact Ledger (UFL) is populated, the system must retrieve the precise variables required to satisfy a user query. Pure semantic vector search is fundamentally ill-suited for financial retrieval because dense embedding models (e.g., bge-m3 ) rely on distributional semantics. Conse-quently, they frequently group mathematically opposite terms by contextual proximity. A query for “Net Sales” will consistently retrieve chunks discussing “Net Income” with high cosine similarity, leading to cascading arithmetic failures downstream. To overcome this, VeNRA introduces a Hybrid Lexical-Semantic Retriever , governed by an LLM-based Query Navigator and a deterministic Lexical Gate. 

Query Navigation and Schema Mapping. Upon receiving a query, a Navigator SLM evaluates the user intent against a dynamically injected schema summary, which maps canonical entity IDs and high-frequency metric names. The Navigator outputs a bipartite RetrievalPlan containing: (1) a structured UFL filter (e.g., Entity ID, Year, Metric Keywords, and Nuance conditions), and (2) a “Vector Hypothesis”, an idealized text snippet theoretically containing the answer. 

Lexical Pre-Filtering (The Semantic Gate). To prevent distributional semantic conflation, all vec-tor retrieval candidates (and fuzzy UFL metric matches) must pass a deterministic Lexical Gate before entering the context window. Let Q be the multiset of normalized tokens in the query, and C be the multiset of tokens in the candidate chunk. Standard Jaccard Similarity ( J = |Q∩C||Q∪C| ) is strictly avoided; because financial text chunks are highly verbose ( |C| ≫ | Q|), the massive union denominator forces J toward zero even for perfect semantic matches. Instead, we compute token intersection Recall: 

Rlex =

∑ 

> t∈set (Q)

min(#( t, Q ), #( t, C )) 

|Q| (2) where #( t, X ) denotes the multiplicity of token t in multiset X. If Rlex < τ lex (where τlex = 0 .30 ), the candidate is dropped. Crucially, two pre-processing steps guarantee the gate’s efficacy: 1. Domain-Specific Stop-Word Filtering: Standard financial modifiers (e.g., “net”, “total”, “per”) are strictly classified as non-discriminative stop-words and removed from Q. If 6“net” were retained, a query for “Net Income” ( Q = {net , income }) evaluated against a candidate discussing “Net Sales” ( C = {net , sales }) would yield Rlex = 0 .50 , falsely passing the threshold. Filtering “net” isolates the discriminative tokens, yielding Rlex =0.0 and successfully blocking the semantic hallucination. 2. Prefix Stripping: The trailing context buffer ( [Previous Context: bi−1]) injected during the chunking phase (Section 3.1) is forcefully stripped from C prior to tokenization. This prevents cross-chunk token contamination, ensuring that an irrelevant candidate does not pass the gate simply because its injected prefix shares tokens with the query. 

Relational Graph Expansion. Because the UFL acts as a relational graph, retrieval operates along three concurrent expansion pathways: 1. Structured Expansion: The UFL DataFrame is filtered sequentially. If a nuance_focus 

is generated by the Navigator (e.g., “Restated”), it acts as a boolean AND-gate over the 

text_nuance column, deterministically isolating adjusted figures. 2. Entity Pivoting: If retrieved UFL rows contain a related_entity_id (e.g., a supplier), the system pivots and queries the vector database for chunks mentioning that specific entity, using a relaxed lexical threshold ( τlex = 0 .20 ) to account for sparse entity mentions in prose. 3. Frequency-Based Chunking: To ensure the reasoning agent has access to the qualitative text (the “data hub”) that generated the numbers, the system isolates the most frequent 

source_chunk_id s from the retrieved UFL rows and forcefully includes their raw text chunks in the context window. 

3.5 Program-Aided Execution and Context Assembly 

The final architectural phase extends the Program-Aided Language Models (PAL) paradigm Gao et al. [2023]. The LLM is stripped of its role as a probabilistic calculator and relegated to the role of a deterministic software architect. 

Context Assembly and Priority Scoring. To prevent “Context Rot”, where an LLM loses attention over an expansive context window, the Context Assembler deduplicates all retrieved UFL rows and text chunks. Chunks are ranked via a priority scoring heuristic: a chunk c receives +5 points if it is physically linked to a retrieved UFL row (via source_chunk_id ), and +1 point for every BM25 keyword it contains. The context is strictly truncated to the top k = 5 chunks and presented as a fused Markdown representation containing both the structured UFL table and the unstructured raw text. 

Two-Pass Deterministic Orchestration. VeNRA executes reasoning via a dual-pass neuro-symbolic flow: • Pass 1 (The Architect): A reasoning model evaluates the assembled context. It generates a step-by-step logic plan and writes deterministic Python code to compute the answer. The code is executed in an isolated local Python subprocess. If a formula constraint was previ-ously offloaded (Section 3.3) and the UFL num_value is None , the code naturally halts or explicitly requests the missing variable from the text, preventing blind arithmetic. • Pass 2 (The Synthesizer): A low-latency SLM ingests the mathematical output from the Python subprocess and formulates the final natural language response, ensuring every stated number is cited directly to a UFL row_id or Chunk ID. 

Runtime Fallback Protocol: “Trust Text Over Data”. Despite rigorous ingestion grounding, op-tical character recognition (OCR), failure in UFL underlying LLM, and PDF parsing anomalies in-evitably occur. VeNRA implements a programmatic fault-tolerance mechanism. The Architect agent is explicitly instructed via its system prompt to cross-reference the structured UFL rows against the provided raw text chunks. If the agent detects that the UFL data is malformed (e.g., an unaligned temporal column) or mathematically contradicts the raw text, it programmatically discards the UFL variable. Instead, the Python code is written to extract and compute the values directly from the provided source text string, guaranteeing system resilience. 74 VeNRA-Data: Adversarial Simulation of RAG Failures 

To effectively train a low-latency Sentinel model to audit the outputs of the VeNRA architecture, we require a dataset that accurately reflects the failure modes of financial RAG systems. We introduce 

VeNRA-Data , a heavily curated, 10,000-sample dataset comprising contrastive pairs of grounded and ungrounded financial reasoning traces. To prevent the classification model from becoming overly dependent on contextual presence, a com-mon flaw where models flag true financial axioms as hallucinations simply because they are omitted from the immediate text, we avoid the binary True/False paradigm. Instead, VeNRA-Data adopts a strict tripartite taxonomy: SUPPORTED (backed by text or valid computation), UNFOUNDED (contra-dicts evidence, uses ungrounded inputs, or commits logic errors), and GENERAL (axiomatic financial truths independent of the provided context). 

4.1 The Flaw in Generative Hallucinations 

Current hallucination detection benchmarks (e.g., HaluEval) primarily rely on LLM-generated se-mantic noise. Dataset creators typically prompt a frontier model to intentionally rewrite a factual sentence into a hallucination. This methodology fundamentally lacks ecological validity . Genera-tive hallucinations tend to be linguistically obvious, structurally lazy, and linguistically distinct from the source text. Financial RAG systems in production do not fail by inventing linguistically anomalous sentences; they fail via precise mechanical, calculative, and mapping errors. An LLM extracting data from a 10-K is far more likely to select an adjacent temporal column (e.g., 2022 instead of 2023 ) or divide by a hallucinated denominator than it is to invent a fictitious corporate acquisition. To overcome the limitations of generative noise, we shift the paradigm to Adversarial Simulation .We utilize five high-quality, human-annotated financial QA datasets including FinQA Chen et al. [2021], TAT-QA Zhu et al. [2021], FinanceBench Islam et al. [2023], truthfulQA Lin et al. [2022b], and PHANTOM Ji et al. [2025] as our “Golden” baseline. Rather than asking an LLM to rewrite them, we employ a deterministic Saboteur Engine to systematically mutate specific informational pathways, algorithmically recreating the exact cognitive failures observed in production architec-tures. 

4.2 The Saboteur Engine: Programmatic Injections 

The Saboteur Engine consists of modular, deterministic perturbation algorithms. For a given Golden record containing a Query ( Q), Context ( C), execution Trace ( T ), and Target Sentence ( S), the engine attempts to generate an UNFOUNDED “Hard Negative” clone via one of four specific attack vectors. 

1. The Logic Code Lie. This vector targets records containing arithmetic traces (e.g., FinQA). It simulates a scenario where the generated Python code is syntactically and mathematically valid, but the input variables hallucinated by the agent are fundamentally incorrect. Let VT be the set of numeric scalars present in the execution trace T , and VC be the set of numeric scalars present in the context C. The engine isolates a target variable v ∈ VT (excluding structural indices such as 0 or 1). It then samples a distractor scalar d ∈ { VC \ VT }. The trace is mutated via functional substitution: 

T ′ = T [v ← d].Crucially, the Saboteur then executes the hallucinated trace T ′ in a secure sandbox to produce a new resultant scalar R′. The target sentence is updated to reflect R′ (S ← S′). The resulting record presents a profound challenge to the Judge model: the sentence S′ perfectly matches the output of the trace T ′, but the trace relies on an input d that misaligns with the semantic text C.

2. The Numeric Neighbor Trap. This vector targets tabular extraction failures, simulating the “col-umn/row shift” errors endemic to PDF optical character recognition (OCR) and LLM grid parsing. Let the financial table be represented as a 2D matrix M . The engine locates the ground-truth scalar within the matrix at coordinates (i, j ) such that Mi,j ∈ S. The algorithm deterministically shifts the coordinate space to select a neighboring cell M ′, where M ′ ∈ { Mi±1,j , M i,j ±1}.8By substituting M ′ into S, the engine simulates two highly prevalent RAG failures: a Temporal Slip 

(a horizontal column shift, retrieving the wrong fiscal year) or a Metric Slip (a vertical row shift, retrieving an adjacent accounting category). 

3. Irrelevancy and Time Warps. This vector simulates staleness and retrieval failure. • The Time Warp: If the user query Q contains a specific temporal bounding condition (e.g., the year 2020 ), the Saboteur mutates the query Q ← Q2021 . The context C and the sentence 

S remain entirely unchanged. This trains the model to detect scenarios where the provided answer is factually supported by the text, but fails to satisfy the temporal constraints of the user’s prompt. • Context Swap (Non-Existence): The engine retains Q and S, but replaces the context C

entirely with text chunks sampled from a completely disjoint financial document. This cre-ates a “non-existence” hallucination, forcing the Sentinel model to detect when a generated answer is entirely ungrounded by the provided retrieval context. 

4. Semantic and Scale Drift. Finally, the engine applies deterministic regex-bounded substitutions to simulate unit and entity mapping failures. Using a predefined domain ontology, scale tokens are inverted (e.g., “millions” ↔ “billions”), and capitalized Named Entities are swapped with disjoint entities found elsewhere in the text space (e.g., misattributing a subsidiary’s revenue to the parent corporation). 

4.3 The Teacher-Auditor Protocol and Noise Injection 

While programmatic sabotage deterministically generates hard negatives, it is susceptible to “Acci-dental Truths”, scenarios where an injected scalar coincidentally matches a valid contextual fact, or where the original “Golden” record itself contains human annotation errors (e.g., “Dirty Gold”). To guarantee the pristine quality of the training signals, VeNRA-Data employs a multi-tiered 

Teacher-Auditor Protocol . The Auditor is tasked with independently evaluating the sabotaged tu-ple (Q, C, T ′, S ′) to verify if it is genuinely unfounded. 

Dual-Path Cause-Effect Validation. A critical algorithmic hurdle in automated auditing is the decoupling of cause and effect. In a “Logic Code Lie” (Section 4.2), the Saboteur mutates an input variable ( v ← d). However, the Teacher model frequently flags the output scalar (the final computed answer in S′) as the error span, rather than the injected input d. A naive string-matching validation script falsely rejects these valid sabotages because the cause ( d) does not equal the effect ( S′). We resolve this via a Dual-Path Validation algorithm. Let Eteacher be the error span detected by the Teacher, and Θteacher be the internal reasoning trace (the <think> block). A sabotage injection d

is validated if it satisfies either of the following conditions: 1. Effect Match: The fuzzy token set ratio between d and Eteacher exceeds a threshold 

τf uzz > 60 .2. Cause Match: The injected scalar d is explicitly present within the Teacher’s causal reason-ing block Θteacher .

Axiomatic Noise Injection. To train the GENERAL class, we utilize TruthfulQA’s finance and eco-nomics splits. Initially, these records contain an empty context ( C = ∅). However, training an autoregressive model on this representation induces a spurious correlation: the model learns the structural shortcut C = ∅ =⇒ GENERAL , bypassing semantic reasoning entirely. To force true logic-awareness, we implement Axiomatic Noise Injection . For every general axiom, we sample a subset of completely irrelevant financial text chunks from a distractor pool ( Cdistractor ). The model must learn to actively ignore the distractor context and rely on its parametric memory when the trace signals GENERAL_KNOWLEDGE , preventing structural overfitting. 

The “Virtual Context” Protocol and HITL Refinement. For highly ambiguous samples where the automated validation yields low confidence, we utilize an AI Proxy Refiner. To minimize context-window bloat and token costs, the Refiner operates under a “Virtual Context” protocol: it is de-nied access to the raw context C. Instead, it relies entirely on the Teacher’s Θteacher block as its “eyes.” Guided by a strict meta-prompt, the Refiner surgically corrects nomenclature confusions, 9🧪 VeNRA Active Data Refinement Studio 

Audit Rejection Reason : Teacher labeled as Supported  🤖 AI -Refined (Meta -Prompt )

⬅ Previous  Sample  1 / 344  Next (Skip ) ➡

Audit Target : sabotaged _unfounded 

Attack Type : semantic _drift 

Intended Lie : Framework  Teacher Verdict : Supported 

Confidence : N/A

📝 Evidence (Read Only )

User Question :

Were the company 's internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures considered e ff ective as of December 31, 2023? 

Text Context :

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . Not applicable . Item 9A. Controls and Procedures .

Disclosure Controls and ProceduresWe maintain disclosure controls and procedures , as defined in Rules 13 a-15( e) and 15 d-15( e) under the Exchange Act , that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file with the SEC under the Exchange Act is recorded ,

processed , summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC ’s rules and forms , and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management , including our principal executive off icer and principal financial o ff icer , as appropriate , to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure . As of December 31, 2023, we carried out an evaluation , under the supervision and with the participation of our management , including our principal executive o ff icer and principal financial o ff icer , of the e ff ectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures . Based on this evaluation , our principal executive o ff icer and principal financial o ff icer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were e ff ective at a reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2023.105 Internal Control over Financial ReportingOur management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 

🛠  Refinement Zone (Editable )

🎯 Edit Target Sentence 

Framework , the company 's internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were considered e ff ective as of December 31 2023 

⚙ Edit Logic Trace 

# VERIFICATION _TYPE : TEXT _ANALYSIS 

💭 Edit Internal Thinking 

1. Entity Audit : The text concludes that controls were e ff ective but the sentence starts with 'Framework ', which is a sabotaged replacement for the word 'Yes '. 2. Temporal Audit : Date (Dec 31, 2023) matches . 3. Trace Validation :

The trace is generic . The teacher 's reasoning missed that 'Framework ' is a nonsensical entity swap that invalidates the sentence as a faithful extraction .

🔍 Edit Final Analysis 

The target sentence is logically corrupted by a semantic swap where the aff irmative conclusion (' Yes ') was replaced by the word 'Framework '. 

Although the underlying claim about e ff ectiveness is factually supported by the text the specific phrasing introduced by the sabotage creates an 

Commit Decision 

🔥 UNFOUNDED  ✅ SUPPORTED  🌐 GENERAL  🗑  DISCARD 

Data Pipeline 

Total Audited 

9335 

Auto -Verified 

8610 

In Review Queue 

344 

Human Decisions 

66 

AI Refined 

336 

🔄 Refresh Data VeNRA HITL v 3.4 | Studio Mode Figure 2: The VeNRA Refinement UI. Streamlit UI to faciliate human annotation that are ambigu-ous from teacher and the AI proxy refiner. sign-convention inversions (e.g., treating a cash outflow as an inflow), and boilerplate evasions, ef-fectively overruling the Teacher model when it exhibits “math-blindness.”. If the result was still ambigious, we tag for human annotation via the specific UI shown in Fig. 2. 

4.4 Contrast Pairs and Hybrid-Family Splitting 

The final architectural requirement for VeNRA-Data is the prevention of dataset leakage and the establishment of a causal evaluation framework. Standard randomized stratification (e.g., an 80/10/10 train/val/test split) over a dataset containing cloned records guarantees severe data leakage. If a Golden record (the Parent) is assigned to the training set, and its sabotaged clone (the Child) is assigned to the validation set, the model evaluates on a context it has already memorized, inflating performance metrics. To eliminate leakage and maximize the learning signal, we implement Hybrid-Family Splitting .Let a Family Fi be defined as a set containing a golden Parent record and its corresponding sabo-taged Children: Fi = {Sparent , S ′

child _1, . . . }. Families are derived programmatically via a lineage heuristic ( family_id ). The dataset is partitioned not by individual records, but by entire Families. Families are grouped into four distinct semantic buckets: 1. Sabotage Pairs: Families containing both SUPPORTED and UNFOUNDED siblings. 2. Natural Failures: Families containing organically UNFOUNDED records (e.g., original Fi-nanceBench failures) with no supported sibling. 3. Natural Supported: Families comprising only golden records not selected for sabotage. 4. Axioms: Families representing GENERAL truths. A stratified split is performed across these buckets, ensuring exactly 10% of the Families from each bucket are allocated to the Validation and Test sets respectively. 10 This strict topological isolation provides a dual benefit: it mathematically guarantees zero contextual leakage between splits, and it forces the model to learn the delta . By encountering identical contexts and queries during training, where one answer is mathematically sound and the other contains a subtle logic lie, the model’s loss landscape is optimized to detect minute reasoning derivations rather than broad linguistic artifacts. Furthermore, preserving these pairs in the evaluation sets enables the calculation of a strict “Flip Rate” (Sensitivity), measuring the model’s ability to correctly invert its prediction when presented with a minimal adversarial perturbation. 

5 VeNRA Sentinel: Forensic Auditing under Latency Constraints 

To deploy VeNRA in a production financial environment, the generated answers must be audited in real-time. Frontier LLM-as-a-Judge models introduce prohibitive latency ( ≈ 2-4 seconds) and excessive operational costs. To solve this, we introduce the VeNRA Sentinel , a specialized 3-B parameter Small Language Model (SLM) based on Qwen-2.5-Coder-3B-Instruct 5.The Sentinel is trained as a “White-Box” hallucination detector. It ingests the User Query ( Q), the Text Context ( C), the Python Execution Trace ( T ), and the Target Sentence ( S), outputting a strict tripartite verdict: SUPPORTED , UNFOUNDED , or GENERAL . To satisfy a strict inference latency budget while maintaining reasoning capabilities, we had to fundamentally alter standard instruction-tuning paradigms. 

5.1 The Sytem 1.5 Paradigm and Token Orthogonality 

Standard Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting dictates that reasoning must precede the final answer (e.g., [Analysis] → [Label] ). While this allows the model to utilize computational “test time” to arrive at a conclusion, autoregressive generation of a 150-token analysis incurs ≈ 1500 ms of latency on standard consumer hardware, violating our latency constraints. To satisfy latency constrain, we inspired from SALSA (Single-pass Autoregressive LLM Structured Classification) framework, formatting the training targets as Reverse-CoT: 

Label: [Verdict] \n Analysis: [Reasoning] .In an autoregressive framework, tokens generated after the label cannot mathematically influence the probability distribution of the label itself during a single forward pass. However, training the model to predict the label and immediately explain it acts as a “Gradient Tether.” It forces the hidden states of the Label token to become incredibly dense, requiring it to contain not just the binary classification decision, but the precise latent “seed” of the upcoming forensic explanation. During production inference, we execute a single forward pass, extract the unnormalized logits for the label tokens, and programmatically halt generation, achieving latency verification. If a query is flagged as UNFOUNDED , generation can optionally resume to provide the debug analysis to the end-user. To extract highly calibrated logits at the very first decoding step, the target tokens must be se-mantically and mathematically distinct. Naive binary labels (e.g., True / False or Supported /

Unfounded ) suffer from severe semantic conflation in the model’s pre-training data. To select optimal classification tokens, we extracted the input embedding matrix E ∈ R|V |× d from the base Qwen model and computed pairwise cosine similarities: 

sim (ei, e j ) = ei · ej

∥ei∥∥ ej ∥ (3) We discovered that standard labels like True / False exhibited a high cosine similarity ( sim ≈

0.68 ), meaning their initial vector representations are highly proximate, forcing the attention layers to work harder to separate them. Through programmatic search, we identified a highly orthogonal set of single-token labels: Found , Fake , and General . This set yielded a maximum pairwise cosine similarity of < 0.25 , ensuring that the linear classification head operates on easily separable latent vectors. 

> 5https://huggingface.co/pagand/venra

11 5.2 The Effects of Loss Dilution 

Training the Sentinel model using standard trainers (e.g. SFTTrainer ) resulted in catastrophic failure. The model rapidly achieved a low validation loss but exhibited a near-random “Flip Rate” accuracy on the adversarial contrast pairs. The model had learned to be a Sycophant : it minimized global loss by defaulting to the majority class ( Found ) and generating highly fluent, generic financial analyses. In a standard autoregressive Cross-Entropy formulation over a sequence of length N , the loss is averaged across all active completion tokens: 

Lbatch = − 1

N

> N

∑

> i=1

log P (yi | x<i ) (4) In our Reverse-CoT prompt, the sequence consists of 1 label token and approximately 150 analysis tokens. Consequently, the gradient contribution of the critical classification decision is profoundly diluted: ∂L 

> ∂θ label

∝ 1151 < 0.7% . The model is overwhelmingly penalized for grammatical imperfec-tions in its reasoning rather than catastrophic failures in its verdict. To restore the gradient signal of the verdict, we must apply a large differential weight to the label token. However, implementing a weighted loss via PyTorch’s 

CrossEntropyLoss(reduction=’none’) on a 3-B parameter model triggers immediate Out-Of-Memory (OOM) failures on a single GPU (with <50GB of VRAM) 6. To solve this, we employed a custom Micro-Chunking Trainer . We bypass the model’s internal loss calculation, flattening the shift-logits and shift-labels. We then iteratively slice the sequence into micro-chunks of size c = 512 entirely within the loss computation loop. For a flat sequence length T = B × S,the weighted loss is accumulated safely: 

Ltotal =

∑⌈T /c ⌉

> k=0

∑ 

> i∈Ck

wiLCE (ˆ yi, y i)

∑⌈T /c ⌉

> k=0

∑ 

> i∈Ck

wi

(5) This architectural optimization bounds the VRAM consumption of the loss function to O(c × | V |)

rather than O(B × S × | V |), maintaining exact mathematical equivalence to the full weighted Cross-Entropy. 

5.3 Dynamic Loss Clamping and Differential Weighting 

While the Micro-Chunking Trainer enables weighted loss, multiplying the label gradient by 50 ×

introduces severe topological instability ( Gradient Seesaw ). Imposing a large penalty on a confi-dently wrong prediction (where P (ˆ y) ≈ 0) causes the cross-entropy loss to spike asymptotically 7.To stabilize convergence, we introduced Dynamic Loss Clamping , explicitly capping the maximum penalization: 

Lweighted = min( wi · L CE , 5.0 · wmax ) (6) Initially, we applied the penalty uniformly across all three classes. This induced a secondary failure mode: the model began drastically over-predicting the minority General class. The model utilized the General token as a “safe harbor” to avoid the massive penalization of misclassifying the pri-mary Found /Fake distribution. We resolved this via Asymmetric Differential Weighting : assigning a 50 × penalty to Found /Fake to force hard binary logic, but reducing the General penalty to 10 ×,preserving axiomatic knowledge retention without inducing class bleed. To facilitate training at high adapter ranks ( r = 96 , 128 ) under these extreme gradient conditions, we utilized 4-bit NF4 Quantization (QLoRA) paired with Rank-Stabilized LoRA (rsLoRA) Kala-jdzievski [2023]. By scaling the adapter activations by α√r rather than αr , rsLoRA prevents gradient vanishing in deeper layers, enabling stable logic-awareness acquisition.                         

> 6For a micro-batch size B= 2 and sequence length S= 4096 , calculating the unreduced loss instantiates a tensor of size [B×S× | V|]. At FP32 precision (required for loss stability), this single intermediate tensor consumes ≈1.25 Billion floats ( ≈5GB). Combined with gradients and optimizer states, this vastly exceeds VRAM capacity.
> 7During early training, we observed massive gradient norm explosions ( ∥g∥>72 ,000 ), causing the model to violently oscillate, updating from predicting 100% Fake in one step to 100% Found in the next.

12 5.4 Prompting Physics and Uncertainty Quantification 

Because the base model ( Qwen-2.5-Coder-3B-Instruct ) possesses a strong inductive bias for code execution, it instinctively attempts to mathematically solve the Python trace provided in the prompt. However, a 3B parameter model lacks the FLOP depth to reliably execute complex 6-digit subtraction in a single forward pass. If it attempts arithmetic simulation, it hallucinates. We coun-teract this via Algorithmic De-activation in the system prompt 8 to successfully redirects the model’s attention heads from arithmetic simulation toward semantic set-intersection and string-matching. Causal LLMs suffer from the “Lost in the Middle” phenomenon in large contexts An et al. [2024]. To prevent the model from forgetting the verification target after processing 4,000 tokens of 10-K text, we implement Selective Prompt Repetition . We state the Query and Trace at the very top of the prompt, inject the massive context, and strictly repeat the Query and Trace at the bottom boundary immediately preceding the Label: generation token. This aligns with the finding of Leviathan et al. [2025] for non-reasoning tasks. During inference, raw softmax probabilities are deceptive; a model can output Ptop 1 = 0 .99 simply due to softmax temperature, despite high internal confusion Liu et al. [2025]. Drawing inspiration from recent production safety frameworks such as HaluGate Park et al. [2025], VeNRA implements a Logit Gap uncertainty threshold: ∆ = Ptop 1 − Ptop 2. If ∆ < 0.15 , the Sentinel determines the semantic entropy is too high, forcefully overrides the output to Uncertain , and routes the query to a human auditor or a frontier System-2 model. 

6 Discussion, Limitations, and Conclusion 

6.1 Discussion: The Neuro-Symbolic Efficiency Frontier 

The prevailing trajectory in Large Language Model research assumes that hallucination mitigation is a function of parametric scaling. The VeNRA framework demonstrates an alternative, highly efficient paradigm: Neuro-Symbolic Cognitive Offloading . By acknowledging that LLMs are funda-mentally probabilistic sequence generators, VeNRA surgically removes their responsibility to per-form arithmetic, bounding them instead within strictly typed schemas (the UFL) and deterministic execution environments (Python). This architectural shift yields a dual benefit. First, it achieves “Zero-Hallucination” arithmetic by construction, provided the initial extraction is grounded. Second, the development of VeNRA-Data 

proves that the bottleneck in creating reliable “LLM-as-a-Judge” models is not model size, but data ecology. By shifting evaluation benchmarks from linguistically obvious semantic noise to struc-turally precise Adversarial Simulation (e.g., Logic Code Lies), we empower locally deployable 3Bparameter SLMs to achieve forensic verification capabilities previously restricted to frontier models, effectively democratizing high-stakes financial auditing. 

6.2 Limitations 

Despite its structural rigor, the VeNRA architecture possesses inherent limitations grounded in its reliance on deterministic extraction: 1. Recursive Graph Blindness: The UFL flattens financial reports into a relational table. While this enables rapid SQL-like filtering, it fails to capture recursive second-order rela-tionships (e.g., “Supplier of a Supplier”) inherent in complex supply chains. Currently, the Naive Graph Expansion relies on single-step filtering, potentially missing multi-hop risks. 2. Referential Nuance Loss: Financial footnotes frequently employ referential pointers (e.g., “See Note 12”). While our Trailing-Buffer Chunking captures immediate context, a footnote extracted into the text_nuance column loses its hypertextual integrity. If the referenced note resides in a disjointed chunk not retrieved by the Navigator, the qualitative context is severed, potentially leading to misinterpretation of conditional covenants.  

> 8Example prompt: “Do NOT recalculate the math. Assume the arithmetic evaluates to the Claimed Answer. You must verify the EXTRACTION and LOGIC.”

13 3. The Semantic Schema Bottleneck: The Lexical Pre-Filter effectively prevents vector con-flation for standard GAAP metrics. However, highly idiosyncratic corporate taxonomies (e.g., non-GAAP “Adjusted EBITDAR excluding Stock-Based Comp”) may evade the Nav-igator’s synonym mapping. If the Lexical Gate is too aggressive, it risks filtering out valid but non-standard metric terminologies. 

6.3 Conclusion 

In high-stakes domains such as finance, a 99% accuracy rate yields 0% operational trust. VeNRA establishes a novel blueprint for grounded Retrieval-Augmented Generation. By pioneering the Uni-versal Fact Ledger (a deterministic variable store), Double-Lock Grounding (a strict extraction firewall), and the VeNRA Sentinel (a latency-optimized forensic judge), we provide a mathemati-cally grounded architecture for reliable financial reasoning. We release the VeNRA-Data adversarial dataset and the OOM-safe Micro-Chunking Trainer to accelerate the development of specialized, logic-aware verification models across the open-source community. 14 A Universal Fact Ledger (UFL) 2.0 Schema 

The UFL is implemented as a strict Pydantic v2 schema to ensure compatibility with the Python execution engine. It acts as the API contract between the probabilistic extractor and the deterministic solver. 

class UFLRow(BaseModel): row_id: str # md5(entity + metric + period) canonical_entity_id: str # Normalized (e.g., ’ID_AAPL’) metric_name: str # Semantic key (e.g., ’Revenue’) # --- Computation & Grounding ---num_value: Optional[float] # None for qualitative facts grounding_quote: str # Verbatim substring for alignment unit_normalized: str # e.g., "USD", "Ratio", "USD/Share" scale: float # Multiplier (e.g., 1e6) # --- Context & Filtering ---period_end: Optional[str] # ISO-8601 Date period_type: Optional[str] # ’FY’, ’Q3’, ’TTM’ doc_section: str # Breadcrumb path source_chunk_id: str # ChromaDB Foreign Key text_nuance: Optional[str] # Footnotes / formulas # --- Alignment Metadata (Post-Hoc Aligner) ---char_interval: Optional[Tuple[int, int]] alignment_status: Literal["EXACT", "PARTIAL", "FUZZY", "UNALIGNED"] confidence_score: float # 0.95 for Table Melts, 0.0 if Unaligned 

B Adversarial Simulation Protocols (VeNRA-Data) 

The Saboteur Engine generates “Hard Negatives” by mutating grounded reasoning traces via four specific attack vectors. 

1. Logic Code Lie (Variable Swap) 

• Context: “...revenue was $100M, while operating expenses were $80M...” • Golden Trace: step_1 = 100 - 80 → Target: “Profit was 20.” (SUPPORTED) • Sabotaged Trace: step_1 = 150 - 80 → Target: “Profit was 70.” (UNFOUNDED) • Task: Judge must detect that 150 does not match the text context 100 .

2. Numeric Neighbor Trap (Table Shift) 

• Context: A matrix where M2022 = 45 .5 and M2023 = 52 .1.• Query: “What was the metric in 2022?” • Sabotaged Sentence: “The metric in 2022 was 52.1.” (UNFOUNDED: Temporal slip). 

3. Time Warp (Irrelevancy) 

• Golden Query: “What was Apple’s revenue in 2021?” • Sabotaged Query: “What was Apple’s revenue in 2020 ?” • Note: Context and Answer remain entirely unchanged. The model must recognize that the correct evidence answers the wrong temporal question. 

The Teacher-Auditor Validation Protocol To prevent “Accidental Truths” (where a sabotage coin-cidentally matches reality), we employ a Dual-Path Validation check using a GPT-4o Auditor: • Effect Match: Does the Auditor’s detected error span fuzzy-match our injected value? 15 • Cause Match: Does the injected value appear explicitly in the Auditor’s internal reasoning trace ( Θteacher )? Only samples satisfying one of these conditions are accepted into the dataset. 

C Micro-Chunking Differential Loss Algorithm 

To prevent 1.25 Billion float Vocabulary OOMs when applying 50 × differential penalties to label tokens, we utilize the following algorithm to iteratively compute loss within a bounded VRAM footprint. 

Algorithm 1 OOM-Safe Micro-Chunking Weighted Loss 

Input: Logits ˆY ∈ RB×S×| V |, Labels Y ∈ ZB×S , Weights W, Chunk Size c

Output: Lf inal (Scalar) 

1: Flatten shift-logits: ˆYf lat ← ˆY [..., : −1, :] .view (−1, |V |)

2: Flatten shift-labels: Yf lat ← Y [..., 1 :] .view (−1) 

3: Ltotal ← 0.0, Wtotal ← 0.0

4: T ← length (Yf lat )

5: for i = 0 to T step c do 

6: ˆychunk ← ˆYf lat [i : i + c]

7: ychunk ← Yf lat [i : i + c]

8: M ask ← (ychunk ̸ = −100) 

9: if any (M ask ) then 

10: Lraw ← CrossEntropy (ˆ ychunk , y chunk , reduce = none )

11: wchunk ← W [ychunk · M ask ] ▷ Safe weight lookup 

12: Lweighted ← Lraw × wchunk 

13: Lclamped ← min( Lweighted , 5.0 × max( W)) ▷ Gradient Seesaw Fix 

14: Ltotal ← Ltotal + ∑(Lclamped [M ask ]) 

15: Wtotal ← Wtotal + ∑(wchunk [M ask ]) 

16: end if 

17: end for 

18: return Ltotal / max( Wtotal , 1e−9)

D VeNRA Prompting Physics (Bookending) 

The Sentinel Reverse-CoT prompt relies on strict selective repetition to overcome the “Lost in the Middle” phenomenon over 4,000 tokens. 

<|im_start|>user ### TASK: Verify if the CLAIMED_ANSWER given the AGENT_TRACE is [Found, Fake, General]. ### VERIFICATION TARGET: **Query:** {query} **AGENT TRACE:** {trace} **Claimed Answer:** {statement} ### EVIDENCE (Source Document): {context_chunks} ### VERIFICATION TARGET Recap: **Query:** {query} **AGENT TRACE:** {trace} **Claimed Answer:** {statement} ### AUDIT ALGORITHM (CRITICAL): 

16 Do NOT recalculate the math. Assume the arithmetic evaluates to the Claimed Answer. You must verify the EXTRACTION and LOGIC. Output your label first. <|im_end|><|im_start|>assistant Label: 

References 

Shengnan An, Zexiong Ma, Zeqi Lin, Nanning Zheng, Jian-Guang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. Make your llm fully utilize the context. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:62160–62188, 2024. Ross Anderson and Nick Koudas. Greenback bears and fiscal hawks: Finance is a jungle and text embeddings must adapt. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pages 1120–1135, 2024. Yupeng Chang, Xinyu Wang, and Jindong Zhang. Thor: Tool-integrated hierarchical optimization via rl for mathematical reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.04566 , 2025. Wenhu Chen, Xueguang Ma, Xinyu Wang, and William W Cohen. Program of thoughts prompting: Disentan-gling computation from reasoning for numerical reasoning tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.12588 , 2022. Yilun Chen, Shuai Wang, and Yang Liu. Fintextqa: A dataset for financial text question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08544 , 2024. Zhiyu Chen, Wenhu Chen, Charese Smiley, Sameena Shah, Iana Borova, Andre Dylan, William Yang Wang, and Diyi Perrault. Finqa: A dataset of numerical reasoning over financial data. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 3697–3711, 2021. Eunsol Choi and Jinhyeon Kim. Finder: Financial numeric data extraction and reasoning benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.11022 , 2025. Konstantinos Dadopoulos, Dimitra Koutsomiha, and Nikos Karacapilidis. Metadata-driven retrieval-augmented generation for financial question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.08200 , 2025. Deep Ganguli, Liane Lovitt, Jackson Kernion, Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Ben Mann, Ethan Perez, Nicholas Schiefer, Kamal Ndousse, et al. Red teaming language models to reduce harms: Methods, scaling behaviors, and lessons learned. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.07858 , 2022. Luyu Gao, Aman Madaan, Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon, Pengfei Liu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. Pal: Program-aided language models. In International conference on machine learning , pages 10764–10799. PMLR, 2023. Suriya Gunasekar, Yi Zhang, Jyoti Aneja, Caio César Teodoro Mendes, Allie Del Giorno, Sivakanth Gopi, Mojan Javaheripi, Piero Kauffmann, Gustavo de Rosa, Olli Saarikivi, et al. Textbooks are all you need. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.11644 , 2023. Kelly Hong, Anton Troynikov, and Jeff Huber. Context rot: How increasing input tokens impacts llm perfor-mance. URL https://research. trychroma. com/context-rot, retrieved October , 20:2025, 2025. Pranab Islam, Anand Kannappan, Douwe Kiela, Rebecca Qian, Nino Scherrer, and Bertie Vidgen. Fi-nancebench: A new benchmark for financial question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.11944 , 2023. Ziwei Ji, Tianshi Zhang, Nayeon Lee, and Gabriel Grand. Phantom: A benchmark for hallucination detection in financial long-context qa. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12490 , 2025. Damjan Kalajdzievski. A rank stabilization scaling factor for fine-tuning with lora. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.03732 , 2023. Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) , pages 6769–6781, 2020. Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. Colbert: Efficient and effective passage search via contextualized late in-teraction over bert. In Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 39–48, 2020. Seungone Kim, Jamin Shin, Yejin Cho, Joel Jang, Shayne Longpre, Hwaran Lee, Sangdoo Yun, Seongjin Shin, Sungdong Kim, James Thorne, et al. Prometheus: Inducing fine-grained evaluation capability in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08491 , 2023. 

17 Yaniv Leviathan, Matan Kalman, and Yossi Matias. Prompt repetition improves non-reasoning llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.14982 , 2025. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 33, pages 9459–9474, 2020. Junyi Li, Xiaoxue Cheng, Wayne Xin Zhao, Jian-Yun Nie, and Ji-Rong Wen. Halueval: A large-scale hallucina-tion evaluation benchmark for large language models. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 6449–6464, 2023. Stephanie Lin, Jacob Hilton, and Owain Evans. Truthfulqa: Measuring how models mimic human falsehoods. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 3214– 3252, 2022a. Stephanie Lin, Jacob Hilton, and Owain Evans. Truthfulqa: Measuring how models mimic human falsehoods. In Proceedings of the 60th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (volume 1: long papers) , pages 3214–3252, 2022b. Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paranjape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. Transactions of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics , 12:157–173, 2024. Xunzhuo Liu, Huamin Chen, and vLLM Semantic Router Team. Token-level truth: Real-time hallucination detection for production llms. https://blog.vllm.ai/2025/12/14/halugate.html , dec 2025. vLLM Semantic Router Blog. Eunkyu Park, Minyeong Kim, and Gunhee Kim. Halloc: Token-level localization of hallucinations for vision language models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,pages 29893–29903, 2025. Arkil Patel, Satwik Bhattamishra, and Navin Goyal. Are nlp models really able to solve simple math word problems? In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies , pages 2080–2094, 2021. Mrinank Sharma, Meg Tong, Tomasz Korbak, David Rogers, Gabriel PACIFIC, and Ethan Perez. Towards understanding sycophancy in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13548 , 2023. Bowen Tan, Zhexin Zhang, and Zhuoer Liu. Fred: Financial retrieval-enhanced detection and editing of hallu-cinations in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.09112 , 2025. Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. Beir: A heteroge-neous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08663 ,2021. Dannong Wang, Jaisal Patel, Daochen Zha, Steve Y Yang, and Xiao-Yang Liu. Finlora: Benchmarking lora methods for fine-tuning llms on financial datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.19819 , 2025. Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 35:24824–24837, 2022. Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yanping Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuo-han Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024. Fengbin Zhu, Wenqiang Lei, Chao You, Simeng Gu, Zifan Chen, Soujanya Wang, Soujanya Poria, and Tat-Seng Chua. Tat-qa: A question answering benchmark on a hybrid of tabular and textual content in finance. In 

Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 3276–3287, 2021. 

18