Title: NaviRAG: Towards Active Knowledge Navigation for Retrieval-Augmented Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.12766v1

Published Time: Wed, 15 Apr 2026 01:11:46 GMT

Number of Pages: 23

Markdown Content:
# NaviRAG: Towards Active Knowledge Navigation for Retrieval-Augmented Generation 

Jihao Dai 1,2, Dingjun Wu 1, Yuxuan Chen 1, Zheni Zeng 2*, Yukun Yan 1*, Zhenghao Liu 3, Maosong Sun 11Tsinghua University, 2Nanjing University, 3Northeastern University 

Abstract 

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) typi-cally relies on a flat retrieval paradigm that maps queries directly to static, isolated text seg-ments. This approach struggles with more com-plex tasks that require the conditional retrieval and dynamic synthesis of information across different levels of granularity (e.g., from broad concepts to specific evidence). To bridge this gap, we introduce NaviRAG, a novel frame-work that shifts from passive segment retrieval to active knowledge navigation. NaviRAG first structures the knowledge documents into a hi-erarchical form, preserving semantic relation-ships from coarse-grained topics to fine-grained details. Leveraging this reorganized knowledge records, a large language model (LLM) agent actively navigates the records, iteratively iden-tifying information gaps and retrieving relevant content from the most appropriate granularity level. Extensive experiments on long-document QA benchmarks show that NaviRAG consis-tently improves both retrieval recall and end-to-end answer performance over conventional RAG baselines. Ablation studies confirm per-formance gains stem from our method’s capac-ity for multi-granular evidence localization and dynamic retrieval planning. We further discuss efficiency, applicable scenario, and future di-rections of our method, hoping to make RAG systems more intelligent and autonomous. 

1 Introduction 

In recent years, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has been widely regarded as an effective paradigm for improving the reliability and scal-ability of large language models in knowledge-intensive tasks (Lewis et al., 2020). Existing stud-ies focus on cross-document retrieval and multi-hop information integration over large-scale knowl-edge corpora (e.g., HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018),    

> *Corresponding author: yanyk.thu@gmail.com Code available at: https://github.com/ZzzDJH/ NaviRAG

MultiHopRAG (Xiong et al., 2020)), approximat-ing reasoning as the localization and aggregation of dispersed facts. However, such approaches primar-ily emphasize retrieval difficulty while often over-looking the complex semantic structures within texts and their contextual constraints. In complex long-chain reasoning scenarios (Fig-ure 1), queries involve explicit contextual condi-tions, with evidence distributed across different po-sitions or semantic levels of a text, and exhibiting significant variation in granularity. The relation-ship between evidence and queries is not a sim-ple one-to-one mapping; rather, it is jointly con-strained by contextual semantics, thereby imposing higher demands on retrieval mechanisms. Tradi-tional vector-based retrieval methods relying on fixed-granularity text chunking (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Izacard and Grave, 2021; Liu et al., 2024) face an inherent trade-off: fine-grained segments facilitate local matching but lack sufficient context, whereas coarse-grained segments provide more complete information at the cost of introducing noise and reducing matching precision. Although some studies attempt to enhance information or-ganization through structured representations such as knowledge graphs, global modeling incurs high computational costs, while local subgraph retrieval struggles to ensure completeness of evidence re-quired for complex reasoning. Information Foraging Theory (Pirolli and Card, 1999) in cognitive science conceptualizes informa-tion acquisition as a foraging process, suggesting that “information foragers” make sequential deci-sions to stay in or transition between information sources based on information scent, thereby pro-gressively approaching high-value information re-gions. This theory highlights that efficient informa-tion acquisition is not a one-shot retrieval process, but a sequential exploration guided by local signals. Inspired by this perspective, an ideal RAG system should not treat evidence retrieval as a single match-

> arXiv:2604.12766v1 [cs.CL] 14 Apr 2026 Figure 1: Two types of complex long-chain reasoning scenarios, each illustrated with example queries, associated retrieval challenges, limitations of traditional RAG, and how NaviRAG addresses these challenges.

ing step, but model it as a multi-stage, navigable, and dynamic exploration process, which further necessitates a structured and navigable semantic organization of the knowledge base. Based on these observations, we propose Navi-RAG, a navigation-based retrieval-augmented gen-eration framework for complex reasoning ques-tion answering. NaviRAG integrates hierarchi-cal knowledge organization with a staged retrieval mechanism of “locate first, then forage.” At the knowledge organization level, NaviRAG does not rely on predefined document structures; instead, it constructs a hierarchical semantic representation grounded in traceable raw text chunks, progres-sively expanding from global summaries to local details. This design enables both navigability and multi-granularity expressiveness in the information space. During reasoning, NaviRAG models evi-dence acquisition as a coarse-to-fine two-stage ex-ploration process: it first locates relevant semantic subspaces within the hierarchical knowledge base via vector retrieval to define the “foraging scope”; it then performs top-down, multi-step navigational retrieval within this scope, dynamically deciding whether to remain or further refine the search based on information scent and query requirements. This approach achieves efficient yet fine-grained adapta-tion to queries of varying granularity, while better satisfying context-sensitive retrieval needs. We conduct systematic evaluations of NaviRAG on multiple representative benchmarks for complex reasoning question answering, covering diverse text types and evidence distribution patterns. The results demonstrate that, compared to mainstream RAG methods, NaviRAG achieves significant over-all performance improvements. Meanwhile, its reasoning cost is comparable to structured meth-ods based on local graph retrieval, and lower than that of graph-based reasoning frameworks relying on global structural aggregation. Further analysis shows that the performance gains primarily stem from the synergy between hierarchical semantic organization and the staged navigation mechanism, thereby validating the effectiveness of modeling evidence acquisition as a multi-stage, navigable process in complex reasoning scenarios. 

2 Related Work 

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a frame-work that enhances the performance of large lan-guage models on knowledge-intensive tasks by in-corporating external knowledge bases (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Izacard et al., 2022). The core idea is to introduce retrievable non-parametric knowledge into the generation process, enabling models to access information beyond their train-ing corpus during inference, thereby mitigating issues such as outdated knowledge and factual er-rors (Lewis et al., 2020; Izacard et al., 2022). In a typical RAG system, source documents are seg-mented into text chunks and indexed in a vector space (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Izacard and Grave, 2021). During inference, relevant chunks are re-trieved based on semantic similarity to the query and provided as context to the generation model (Karpukhin et al., 2020). In this way, RAG inte-grates knowledge retrieval with text generation, al-lowing language models to perform reasoning and question answering with the support of external knowledge (Lewis et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2023). To address the limitation of traditional text chunk-based retrieval methods in modeling cross-Figure 2: Framework of NaviRAG under a two-stage paradigm of knowledge organization and navigational retrieval. The offline stage organizes documents into a hierarchical structure through top-down semantic routing and bottom-up refusion and summarization. The online stage retrieves evidence via semantic localization and subsequent navigation within the identified semantic subtree. 

chunk semantic relationships, recent studies have explored the use of structured knowledge represen-tations to improve information organization (Sarthi et al., 2024; Edge et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024b). These approaches typically organize textual con-tent using hierarchical or graph-based structures, enabling retrieval processes to aggregate and rea-son across different semantic levels. For exam-ple, some methods construct hierarchical semantic structures via recursive clustering and summariza-tion to support multi-granularity retrieval (Sarthi et al., 2024; Yao et al., 2023). Others extract entity relations from corpora to build knowledge graphs (Edge et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2024; He et al., 2024; Peng et al., 2025), supporting complex question answering through graph traversal and community-level information aggregation (GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024), LightRAG (Guo et al., 2024)). Ad-ditionally, some work draws inspiration from cog-nitive science (Gutiérrez et al., 2024, 2025; Wu et al., 2025)„ modeling knowledge retrieval as an associative activation process over semantic graphs to enhance cross-evidence semantic connections (HippoRAG (Gutiérrez et al., 2025)). While these methods provide richer representational capacity for information organization, constructing global structures typically incurs substantial preprocess-ing costs and may introduce additional computa-tional overhead during inference. Meanwhile, a series of new benchmark tasks have emerged to evaluate language models’ capa-bilities in complex reasoning scenarios (Pang et al., 2022; Bai et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024a). Unlike tra-ditional multi-hop question answering (Yang et al., 2018; Xiong et al., 2020), these tasks not only re-quire identifying multiple relevant facts but also demand understanding and integrating evidence distributed across different parts of the text under specific contextual constraints. For instance, Narra-tiveQA (Koˇ cisk `y et al., 2018) and QuALITY (Pang et al., 2022) emphasize comprehension of long-form narratives and document structures, while benchmarks such as LongBench (Bai et al., 2024, 2025) and LooGLE (Li et al., 2024a) further in-crease text scale and introduce diverse task formats, where evidence is often distributed across different positions or even different semantic levels within documents. These studies suggest that, in com-plex reasoning tasks, evidence acquisition relies more on understanding contextual conditions rather than merely retrieving semantically similar text chunks. Therefore, single-step similarity-based re-trieval mechanisms struggle to flexibly adapt to varying evidence granularity requirements and to progressively locate critical evidence in complex contexts, which limits the performance of tradi-tional RAG methods in such scenarios. 

3 Method 

3.1 Paradigm Definition 

To characterize NaviRAG’s core mechanism, we formalize the evidence acquisition process in com-plex reasoning question answering as a two-stage paradigm consisting of knowledge organization and navigational retrieval(Figure 2). Given a doc-ument collection D and a query q, the process is defined as: 

H = Forg (D), C = Fnav (q, H)

Here, Forg constructs a hierarchical knowl-edge base H with continuous semantic granular-ity, while Fnav performs query-driven, staged ev-idence acquisition over this space, producing a multi-granularity context set C. Specifically, H

consists of semantic nodes, each corresponding to a semantic unit, organized into a tree structure from global to local granularity. This structure enables partitioning of the knowledge space into multiple semantic subtrees, providing navigable local se-mantic regions for subsequent retrieval. During the retrieval stage, Fnav models evi-dence acquisition as a coarse-to-fine exploration process. It first identifies relevant semantic regions via vector retrieval to narrow down the search space. Then, within the candidate subtrees, it performs top-down navigational retrieval, dynamically deciding whether to remain at the current level or further refine the search across different semantic granular-ities to satisfy contextual constraints of the query. The final context set is represented as: 

C = Cvec ∪ Csum ∪ Craw 

where Cvec , Csum , and Craw denote the initially retrieved segments, intermediate-level summaries, and on-demand expanded raw text, respectively. Based on this context, the generation model G pro-duces the answer: 

y = G(q, C)

3.2 Hierarchical Knowledge Organization 

In this section, we introduce the implementation of the knowledge organization function Forg , whose goal is to transform a document collection D into a hierarchical knowledge base H with continuous semantic granularity in an offline stage. In Navi-RAG, each document is constructed as a Knowl-edge Tree . Specifically, given a document D0, it is first segmented into a set of text chunks S =

{s1, s 2, ..., s n}, which serve as the basic semantic units. A hierarchical structure is then progressively built through an LLM-guided organization process. All nodes follow a unified representation: title 

serves as the semantic identifier, value represents the associated content (with intermediate nodes corresponding to sets of child nodes and leaf nodes corresponding to text segments), and a summary 

field is maintained to support cross-level access. Knowledge Tree construction is achieved through top-down structural generation and bottom-up semantic abstraction. First, a high-level seman-tic outline is generated from the document: 

H0 = Outline (D0)

Subsequently, the structure is iteratively updated by inserting text chunks: 

Hi = U(Hi−1, s i), i = 1 , 2, . . . , n 

The detailed procedure is illustrated in Algorithm 1 To ensure structural compactness, the insertion process incorporates several constraints, including restricting multi-path assignments, performing se-mantic splitting when nodes become overly long, and grouping nodes when the number of children exceeds a predefined threshold. After the structure is constructed, the system performs content refine-ment and bottom-up summarization, yielding the final knowledge base: 

H = Refusion (Sum (Hn)) 

This hierarchical structure clusters semantically related content into localized regions within the tree, thereby providing an operational semantic space for subsequent navigational retrieval. 

3.3 Navigational Retrieval over the Knowledge Tree 

NaviRAG models evidence acquisition as a staged navigation process. First, vector retrieval over text chunk set S to obtain a candidate set: 

R = TopK (q, S )

These candidates are mapped to corresponding nodes in the Knowledge Tree, yielding candidate semantic subtrees Hsub that constrain the subse-quent search space. The system then performs top-down navigational retrieval over Hsub , progres-sively transitioning from coarse-grained semantic regions to fine-grained evidence acquisition. During the navigation stage, at each level the system considers the current set of candidate nodes 

Nt and selects a subset based on the query q:

At = Select (q, Nt)Algorithm 1 Segment Insertion for Knowledge Tree                                                                

> Require: Knowledge Tree H, segment si, current path p
> Ensure: Updated tree H
> 1: N←Children (H, p ){candidate nodes at current level} 2: A←Select (si, N ){select relevant titles (limited multi-assignment)} 3: if A=∅then
> 4: H ← CreateNode (H, p, s i)
> 5: return H
> 6: end if
> 7: for each node n∈Ado
> 8: if nis an intermediate node then
> 9: H ← U(H, s i, n ){recursive descent} 10: else
> 11: H ← MergeContent (H, n, s i)
> 12: if Len tokens (n)> τ text then
> 13: H ← SplitNode (H, n ){node expansion} 14: end if
> 15: end if
> 16: end for
> 17: if NumberOfNodes (level (p)) > τ level then
> 18: H ← SoftGrouping (H,level (p)) {semantic regroup-ing} 19: end if
> 20: return H

For each node n ∈ A t, the system determines whether to absorb summary information at the cur-rent level or to expand into its child nodes: 

π(n) ∈ { absorb , expand }

When a leaf node is reached, evidence is extracted from the corresponding raw text. If no valid can-didates remain at a given level (i.e., At = ∅), the corresponding branch is terminated. The final context set is represented as: 

C = Cvec ∪ Csum ∪ Craw 

where Cvec denotes the initial retrieval results, 

Csum the summaries selected during navigation, and Craw the underlying raw text content. This de-sign enables efficient acquisition of evidence across multiple semantic granularities. 

3.4 Memory-guided Navigational Retrieval (Exploratory) 

In the default NaviRAG framework, the navigation process is solely driven by the query q and com-pleted through a single top-down retrieval pass. In-spired by recent note-centric adaptive retrieval that incrementally accumulates and refines knowledge (Wang et al., 2025), to enhance evidence integra-tion across semantic regions in complex reasoning scenarios, we introduce an optional memory-based mechanism that maintains a dynamic state mt dur-ing navigation to accumulate acquired information. Specifically, the context obtained at each step 

ct is written into memory and consolidated via a lightweight update to reduce redundancy: 

mt+1 = Update (mt, c t)

During node selection, memory is incorporated with the query as a conditioning signal: 

At = Select (q, m t, Nt)

This enables the system to dynamically adjust ex-ploration paths and avoid redundant visits. The memory is maintained only within a single query session and is not used for long-term storage. It does not alter the original retrieval pipeline, but instead serves as an auxiliary signal to enhance state awareness during the navigation process. 

4 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Setup 4.1.1 Baselines Method Setup. We consider two representative categories of methods as baselines: (1) flat vector-based retrieval RAG (vanilla RAG), which constructs a vector index over fixed-granularity text chunks and retrieves top-k contexts based on similarity. (2) structure-enhanced RAG, which leverages explicit structures (e.g., knowledge graphs) to im-prove information organization and retrieval. Specifically, we include GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024), LightRAG (Guo et al., 2024), and 

HippoRAG2 (Gutiérrez et al., 2025) (introduced in Related Work 2). All methods are reproduced following their public implementations and default configurations, and are evaluated under a unified retrieval and generation setting for fair compari-son. Detailed hyperparameters and implementation specifics are provided in the appendix A.2. 

Model Setup. To ensure fairness and repro-ducibility, all methods are compared under a uni-fied configuration unless otherwise specified. In the knowledge organization stage, NaviRAG employs Qwen2.5-72B (Qwen et al., 2025) for summarization and structure construction. For structure-enhanced baselines involving summariza-tion or structural building, the same model is used to eliminate discrepancies in generation capability. In downstream question answering evaluation, we assess NaviRAG and vanilla RAG across mod-els, including Qwen3-14B , Qwen3-32B , Qwen3-30B-A3B (Yang et al., 2025), and LLaMA3.3-70B (Grattafiori et al., 2024). Structure-enhanced base-lines are evaluated on LLaMA3.3-70B , following default configurations. During retrieval, we adopt bge-m3 (Chen et al., 2024) as the embedding model. For vanilla RAG and NaviRAG, we set top-k = 5 , while other meth-ods retain default retrieval parameters. 

4.1.2 Datasets 

We evaluate NaviRAG on single-document ques-tion answering benchmarks to assess its perfor-mance in complex long-chain reasoning scenarios. These tasks require locating and integrating dis-persed evidence within long texts and performing multi-step reasoning under contextual constraints. The selected datasets cover narrative texts (scripts), encyclopedic content (Wikipedia), and domain-specific documents in finance, law, academia, and government reports. We analyze performance along two dimensions: text type and evidence dependency span. Dataset statistics are provided in Table 7. Specifically: 

NarrativeQA (Koˇ cisk `y et al., 2018) focuses on narrative understanding under contextual con-straints. We adopt the same subset as used in Hip-poRAG2 for evaluation. We use token-level F1 to measure generation quality and report Recall@1 

as an auxiliary indicator of retrieval coverage. 

LooGLE (Li et al., 2024a) categorizes tasks into short- and long-dependency subsets based on evidence dependency span, corresponding to lo-cal retrieval and cross-segment integration scenar-ios. Considering computational cost, we sample the first 501 QA pairs from the short-dependency subset and use all QA pairs from the long-dependency subset. Within the long-dependency subset, texts are further categorized into script-style and Wikipedia-style formats to analyze structural differences. We follow the official LLM-as-Judge 

protocol to evaluate semantic equivalence accuracy. 

LongBench-v2 (Bai et al., 2025) provides com-plex tasks over ultra-long documents across mul-tiple domains that require global understanding. In this work, we adopt its single-document subset and include all QA pairs across diverse domains, including academic, legal, financial, and govern-ment reports, to evaluate model generalization in vertical scenarios. As the task is formulated as single-choice question answering, we report stan-dard accuracy .

4.2 Main Results 

We evaluate NaviRAG across benchmarks, with main results presented in Table 1 and Table 2. Overall, NaviRAG consistently outperforms vanilla RAG across all datasets and model con-figurations, and achieves the best performance on complex long-chain reasoning tasks. Compared to structure-enhanced methods, NaviRAG demon-strates more stable advantages in scenarios requir-ing cross-region evidence integration and reasoning under complex contextual constraints. From the perspective of task types , the per-formance gains are closely related to the span of evidence dependency. In retrieval-oriented tasks (LooGLE-short), where answers primarily rely on a single local piece of evidence, the improvements brought by NaviRAG are limited. In contrast, for complex long-chain reasoning tasks that require contextual understanding and multi-evidence inte-gration, the advantages become more pronounced. Specifically, on NarrativeQA , NaviRAG consis-tently improves retrieval recall by approximately 

5% across different model scales and achieves nearly a 5% gain in F1 on LLaMA3.3-70B. On 

LooGLE-long , it delivers consistent improvements across both the script and Wikipedia subsets. On 

LongBench-v2 , due to the increased task difficulty, noticeable gains are primarily observed on larger models (LLaMA3.3-70B and Qwen3-30B-A3B). From the perspective of model scaling (Table 2), NaviRAG demonstrates consistent gains across dif-ferent model sizes, with more pronounced improve-ments observed on stronger models. 

4.3 Ablation Study 

To analyze the sources of performance gains in NaviRAG, we conduct two groups of ablation stud-ies by removing the navigation mechanism and the hierarchical knowledge structure. The results are summarized in Table 3. When navigation is re-moved, the system performs a single-step retrieval over all nodes in the knowledge base, losing the ability to progressively localize relevant semantic regions, which leads to a significant performance drop. When the hierarchical structure is removed, the navigation process degenerates into local filter-ing over retrieved results, which also fails to yield effective improvements. These results indicate that neither component alone is sufficient to support complex reasoning tasks. The performance gains stem from the syn-Method NarrativeQA Loogle LongBench v2 F1 Recall Short Long-Script Long-Wikipedia Vanilla 27.80 73.23 76.64 41.58 44.66 40.78 GraphRAG 30.17 85.34 66.46 44.85 42.48 38.83 LightRAG 28.98 86.69 67.46 37.38 36.81 34.95 HippoRAG2 27.88 74.57 86.02 41.74 44.66 40.78 NaviRAG 32.60 78.69 79.04 45.01 44.88 42.72 

Table 1: Performance comparison between NaviRAG and baselines. Best results are in bold and second-best results are underlined.                                                                                

> LLM NarrativeQA Loogle LongBench v2 F1 Recall Short Long-Script Long-Wikipedia
> Vanilla
> Qwen3-14B 25.76 73.23 75.44 34.42 38.34 33.98 Qwen3-32B 27.05 73.23 77.64 41.58 42.48 41.75 Qwen3-30B-A3B 26.31 73.23 76.84 43.30 46.84 42.72 Llama3.3-70B 27.80 73.23 76.64 41.58 44.66 40.78
> NaviRAG
> Qwen3-14B 28.10 (+2.34) 78.81 (+5.58) 76.24 (+0.8) 40.03 (+5.61) 40.95 (+2.61) 32.04 (-1.94)
> Qwen3-32B 28.92 (+1.87) 78.82 (+5.59) 77.84 (+0.2) 44.85 (+3.27) 43.79 (+1.31) 40.78 (-0.97)
> Qwen3-30B-A3B 27.43 (+1.12) 77.82 (+4.59) 79.44 (+2.6) 42.67 (-0.63) 49.23 (+2.39) 45.63 (+2.91)
> Llama3.3-70B 32.60 (+4.80) 78.69 (+5.46) 79.04 (+2.4) 45.01 (+3.43) 44.88 (+0.22) 42.72 (+1.94)

Table 2: Performance comparison between Vanilla RAG and NaviRAG across different model sizes. Numbers in parentheses indicate the absolute improvement over the corresponding Vanilla baseline. 

ergy between the hierarchical structure and the nav-igation mechanism: the former provides semantic scope constraints, while the latter progressively lo-cates fine-grained evidence within this scope. 

5 Discussion 

5.1 Memory Module Analysis 

To analyze the role of cross-step information ac-cumulation in navigational retrieval, we intro-duce a lightweight memory module into NaviRAG. The experimental results are summarized in Ta-ble 4. Under the LooGLE-long benchmark with LLaMA3.3-70B, the memory module brings con-sistent performance improvements over the base model, indicating its effectiveness in enhancing cross-region evidence integration. Compared to purely query-driven local navigation, the memory module accumulates intermediate information and provides a more global semantic reference for sub-sequent decisions, thereby improving the direction-ality of multi-step retrieval (see Tables 19 and 20 for case studies). However, this mechanism also has certain lim-itations. The memory update process relies on summarizing and integrating node content, which may introduce semantic uncertainty without origi-nal contextual structure, thereby affecting the qual-ity of memory writing. This issue is more pro-nounced in smaller models, potentially causing in-formation drift or conflicts. In addition, the current memory module only serves as an auxiliary signal in decision-making and does not yet constitute an explicit goal-oriented retrieval strategy. Overall, while the memory module demonstrates the poten-tial value of cross-step information accumulation, more systematic memory mechanisms and globally guided navigation strategies remain to be explored. 

5.2 Efficiency Analysis 

We evaluate the inference overhead of NaviRAG from two perspectives: computational and context efficiency (Table 5, Table 6, and Table 24). 

Computational Efficiency. Taking NarrativeQA as an example, NaviRAG incurs higher inference time than vanilla RAG and HippoRAG2, but re-mains more efficient than LightRAG and signif-icantly outperforms GraphRAG (Table 5). This suggests that navigation based on local semantic scopes maintains high efficiency while avoiding global aggregation and reasoning overhead. In terms of knowledge base construction, Navi-RAG achieves efficiency between LightRAG and Setting NarrativeQA Loogle LongBench v2 F1 Recall Short Script Wikipedia NaviRAG 32.60 78.69 79.04 45.01 44.88 42.72             

> w/o reading 30.52 73.00 72.85 39.71 41.17 42.72 w/o knowledge base 27.69 59.09 77.64 40.03 43.13 40.78

Table 3: Ablation study of NaviRAG components.         

> Method Script Wikipedia Vanilla 41.58 44.66 NaviRAG 45.01 44.88 w/ Memory 45.48 47.27

Table 4: Impact of the memory mechanism on NaviRAG performance.                   

> Method F1 Tokens Time (s/query) Vanilla 27.80 2560 1.01 HippoRAG2 27.88 2635 1.36
> GraphRAG 30.17 7249 14.30 LightRAG 28.98 18896 4.27 NaviRAG 32.60 3305 3.23

Table 5: Performance–efficiency comparison of RAG methods. Time denotes average inference latency per query. Bold and underline indicate the best and second-best results among structured methods (exclud-ing vanilla RAG). 

GraphRAG. With batch processing optimization, NaviRAG’s generation efficiency is second only to HippoRAG2 (Table 6). Detailed analysis of batch generation will be provided in the appendix C.2. 

Context Efficiency. Among all methods that achieve substantial performance gains, NaviRAG demonstrates significantly better context efficiency. We further compare NaviRAG and vanilla RAG under different retrieval scales (top-k = 3, 5, 7, 9, 15)(Table 24). The results show NaviRAG achieves stable per-formance at top-k = 3, whereas vanilla RAG re-quires top-k = 15 to reach or surpass this level (with performance at top-k = 9 being comparable to NaviRAG at top-k = 3). Under the same top-k,NaviRAG increases context length by about 500– 800 tokens (chunk size 512), yet utilizes retrieved content more effectively, demonstrating higher in-formation efficiency. 

5.3 Text-type Preference Analysis 

In the LooGLE-long dataset, we divide samples into two categories based on text source: script and Wikipedia (Tables 21 and 22). The results       

> Method KB Construction Time (min) HippoRAG2 40.58
> LightRAG 61.93 GraphRAG 225.93 NaviRAG 99.95 NaviRAG (batch) 51.28

Table 6: Knowledge base construction time of different methods. 

show that NaviRAG achieves significantly larger performance gains on script documents than on Wikipedia. This difference mainly stems from the distinct semantic structures of the two text types. Script texts exhibit strong semantic continuity, with tightly coupled contextual dependencies across seg-ments, allowing navigational retrieval to progres-sively follow the narrative context to locate relevant information. In contrast, Wikipedia documents are typically composed of relatively independent sections with a more modular semantic structure, where weaker cross-segment dependencies reduce the benefits of multi-step navigation. These findings suggest that navigational retrieval is more suitable for texts with strong semantic con-tinuity. For highly structured documents, how to effectively incorporate native section structures re-mains an open question for future research. 

6 Conclusion 

We propose NaviRAG, a navigational retrieval-augmented generation framework for complex long-chain reasoning. By structuring knowledge hierarchically and formulating retrieval as a multi-stage navigation process, NaviRAG enables effi-cient and context-aware evidence localization. Ex-periments across multiple benchmarks show con-sistent and substantial improvements over existing RAG methods, particularly on multi-hop reasoning tasks. Overall, our results suggest that viewing re-trieval as a navigable exploration process offers a promising and generalizable paradigm for enhanc-ing complex reasoning. Limitations 

Experiments show that NaviRAG significantly im-proves RAG performance on complex long-chain reasoning tasks through its hierarchical structure and navigational retrieval mechanism. However, a certain limitation still warrants attention. This work focuses on complex reasoning tasks under constrained semantic contexts; future work should explore query understanding and information inte-gration in multi-source settings. 

References 

Yushi Bai, Xin Lv, Jiajie Zhang, Hongchang Lyu, Jiankai Tang, Zhidian Huang, Zhengxiao Du, Xiao Liu, Aohan Zeng, Lei Hou, and 1 others. 2024. Long-bench: A bilingual, multitask benchmark for long context understanding. In Proceedings of the 62nd annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (volume 1: Long papers) , pages 3119– 3137. Yushi Bai, Shangqing Tu, Jiajie Zhang, Hao Peng, Xi-aozhi Wang, Xin Lv, Shulin Cao, Jiazheng Xu, Lei Hou, Yuxiao Dong, and 1 others. 2025. Longbench v2: Towards deeper understanding and reasoning on realistic long-context multitasks. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 3639–3664. Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. 2024. Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03216 , 4(5). Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130 .Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yixin Dai, Jiawei Sun, Haofen Wang, Haofen Wang, and 1 others. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 , 2(1):32. Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, and 1 others. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783 .Zirui Guo, Lianghao Xia, Yanhua Yu, Tian Ao, and Chao Huang. 2024. Lightrag: Simple and fast retrieval-augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05779 , 2(3). Bernal J Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Yu Gu, Michihiro Ya-sunaga, and Yu Su. 2024. Hipporag: Neurobiologi-cally inspired long-term memory for large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 37:59532–59569. Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Weijian Qi, Sizhe Zhou, and Yu Su. 2025. From rag to memory: Non-parametric continual learning for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14802 .Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-pat, and Mingwei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented language model pre-training. In International confer-ence on machine learning , pages 3929–3938. PMLR. Xiaoxin He, Yijun Tian, Yifei Sun, Nitesh V Chawla, Thomas Laurent, Yann LeCun, Xavier Bresson, and Bryan Hooi. 2024. G-retriever: Retrieval-augmented generation for textual graph understanding and ques-tion answering. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37:132876–132907. Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2021. Leveraging passage retrieval with generative models for open do-main question answering. In Proceedings of the 16th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics: main volume , pages 874–880. Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lu-cas Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard Grave. 2022. Few-shot learning with re-trieval augmented language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.03299 , 1(2):4. Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP) , pages 6769–6781. Tomáš Koˇ cisk `y, Jonathan Schwarz, Phil Blunsom, Chris Dyer, Karl Moritz Hermann, Gábor Melis, and Ed-ward Grefenstette. 2018. The narrativeqa reading comprehension challenge. Transactions of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics , 6:317–328. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, and 1 others. 2020. Retrieval-augmented gen-eration for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:9459– 9474. Jiaqi Li, Mengmeng Wang, Zilong Zheng, and Muhan Zhang. 2024a. Loogle: Can long-context language models understand long contexts? In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 16304–16333. Zhuoqun Li, Xuanang Chen, Haiyang Yu, Hongyu Lin, Yaojie Lu, Qiaoyu Tang, Fei Huang, Xian-pei Han, Le Sun, and Yongbin Li. 2024b. Struc-trag: Boosting knowledge intensive reasoning of llms via inference-time hybrid information structurization. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08815 .Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2024. Lost in the middle: How language mod-els use long contexts. Transactions of the association for computational linguistics , 12:157–173. Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Alicia Parrish, Nitish Joshi, Nikita Nangia, Jason Phang, Angelica Chen, Vishakh Padmakumar, Johnny Ma, Jana Thompson, He He, and 1 others. 2022. Quality: Question answering with long input texts, yes! In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-man Language Technologies , pages 5336–5358. Boci Peng, Yun Zhu, Yongchao Liu, Xiaohe Bo, Haizhou Shi, Chuntao Hong, Yan Zhang, and Siliang Tang. 2025. Graph retrieval-augmented generation: A survey. ACM Transactions on Information Systems ,44(2):1–52. Peter Pirolli and Stuart Card. 1999. Information forag-ing. Psychological review , 106(4):643. Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, and 25 oth-ers. 2025. Qwen2.5 technical report. Preprint ,arXiv:2412.15115. Parth Sarthi, Salman Abdullah, Aditi Tuli, Shubh Khanna, Anna Goldie, and Christopher D Manning. 2024. Raptor: Recursive abstractive processing for tree-organized retrieval. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations .Ruobing Wang, Qingfei Zhao, Yukun Yan, Daren Zha, Yuxuan Chen, Shi Yu, Zhenghao Liu, Yixuan Wang, Shuo Wang, Xu Han, and 1 others. 2025. Deep-note: Note-centric deep retrievalaugmented genera-tion. Preprint .Dingjun Wu, Yukun Yan, Zhenghao Liu, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2025. Kg-infused rag: Augment-ing corpus-based rag with external knowledge graphs. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09542 .Wenhan Xiong, Xiang Lorraine Li, Srini Iyer, Jingfei Du, Patrick Lewis, William Yang Wang, Yashar Mehdad, Wen-tau Yih, Sebastian Riedel, Douwe Kiela, and 1 others. 2020. Answering complex open-domain questions with multi-hop dense retrieval. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12756 .An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, and 1 others. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christo-pher D Manning. 2018. Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 conference on empiri-cal methods in natural language processing , pages 2369–2380. Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:11809–11822. A Implementation Details 

A.1 Dataset Statistics 

We provide detailed statistics of the datasets used in our experiments, including the number of question-answer pairs and corresponding documents for each dataset, as well as the average document length measured in tokens (see Table 7).                    

> NarrativeQA Loogle LongBench v2 Short Script Wikipedia # Queries 293 501 642 459 103 # Documents 10 24 80 60 103 Avg. Doc Length (k tokens) 59.56 23.84 41.26 22.12 77.92

Table 7: Statistics of evaluation datasets. 

A.2 Baseline Configurations 

We report the implementation details and param-eter settings for all baselines. For each method, we follow its official implementation and retain default configurations whenever possible, without modifying core algorithms unless explicitly stated. To ensure fair comparison, we adopt a unified in-ference procedure across all methods to accommo-date dataset-specific answer formats (e.g., ranking tasks in Loogle-long and multiple-choice settings in LongBench-v2). For structure-enhanced baselines, the key hyper-parameters of GraphRAG and LightRAG are listed in Table 8, while the configuration of HippoRAG2 is provided in Table 9. For NaviRAG, the main hy-perparameters related to hierarchical construction and navigation are summarized in Table 10. Specif-ically, Num Select Titles controls the maximum number of titles selected at each layer; Max Con-tent Length limits the length of each node; Max Titles Num restricts the number of child nodes; and Max Context Tokens is used to prevent ex-ceeding the model context limit without affecting the retrieval process. 

Hyperparameter GraphRAG LightRAG Mode Local Local Chunk Size (tokens) 1200 1200 Chunk Overlap (tokens) 100 100 Max Context (tokens) 8000 30000 Community Report Length 2000 –Max Cluster Size 10 –Entity Summary Tokens – 500 

Table 8: Hyperparameter settings for GraphRAG and LightRAG. 

Hyperparameter HippoRAG2 Num to Retrieve 5

Table 9: Hyperparameter setting for HippoRAG2. 

Hyperparameters NaviRAG 

Organization 

Chunk Token Size 512 Overlap Rate 0.2 Num Select Titles 2Max Content Length 1536 Max Titles Num 12 

Retrieval 

Topk 5Max Context tokens 8192 

Table 10: Hyperparameter settings for NaviRAG. 

A.3 Prompt Templates 

We provide the main prompt templates used in our framework. Prompts for knowledge organization are shown in black, while those for retrieval are highlighted in cyan. The detailed formats are pro-vided below. Prompt Template: Selecting Relevant Titles from Text 

You will receive a list of titles and a passage of text. Please follow these steps: 1. Read and understand the text carefully. Note: a single text passage may contain multiple independent facts, or partial information about a fact. These may correspond to different titles in the title list. 2. Identify and select the titles from the list that match the text. You must select no more than {select_num} titles. 3. Summarize the content from the text that corresponds to each selected title. 4. Each output line must follow the format: "Index//Title//Summary". 5. If no title matches the content of the text, output "None". Example output: 2//Production Growth//The city achieved an agricultural product processing industry output value of 4.41 billion yuan, an increase of 11.7%. The total industrial output value reached 38.66 billion yuan, up 17.4%. 5//Green Agriculture//The city added 3 agricultural products with the right to use the green food label, and 12 products obtained pollution-free food certification. Notes: 1. Output must strictly follow the specified format, with a line break only after the summary. 2. Only select titles that have substantial correspondence or clear relevance to the content; otherwise, output "None". 3. Do not select more than {select_num} titles, and do not use variables or pronouns to replace specific data or facts. Title List: {outlines} Text: {text} Please respond directly, one line per match, with no extra commentary. 

Table 11: Prompt template for selecting relevant titles from current layer (knowledge organization). Prompt Template: Creating a New Node 

You will receive a new piece of text along with the title list of its sibling nodes. Based on the instructions below, generate a new structured title node and its corresponding content: 1. Read and understand the text within the context of the given parent title, identifying its key topic, object, domain, or factual focus under that thematic scope. 2. Based on the parent title’s scope, generate a clear and specific new title for this text, which will serve as a first-level structural node. 3. The new title must be both semantically and literally distinct from all existing titles in the provided list, and should reflect the main informational dimension of the text as it relates to the parent topic. 4. Then, summarize the factual content that best corresponds to the new title. Be concise and concrete. Do not use pronouns or vague references; at the same time, retain key factual details whenever possible, such as time, location, people, events, and numerical data (e.g., amounts, ratios, statistics). 5. Output must follow this strict format: -1//New Title//Summarized Content Example Output: -1//Production Growth//The city achieved an agricultural product processing industry output value of 4.41 billion yuan, an increase of 11.7%. The total industrial output value reached 38.66 billion yuan, up 17.4%. Important Notes: - Only generate one new title and its content. - The new title must be structural, not generic terms like "situation", "issues", or "status". - The new title must not duplicate or partially copy any existing title in the list. - The summary must be fact-based and precise. Do not use terms like "its", "that item", or other abstract references. - Only break the line after the summarized content. Do not add any explanations or extra text. Title List: {outlines} Text: {text} Parent title: {parent_title} Please respond strictly in the format: -1//New Title//Summarized Content. Do not add any explanations or other content. 

Table 12: Prompt template for generating a new node from input segment (knowledge organization). Prompt Template: Merging segment into an Existing Node 

You will receive a topic keyword, an existing paragraph about that topic, and a new supplementary text. Please complete the following task: 1. Understand the topic by combining the topic keyword and the existing content to determine the specific focus of this topic. 2. Extract only the information from the supplementary content that is closely related to the topic. 3. Without repeating the existing content, preserve as much factual detail from the supplementary content as possible, especially information related to time, location, people, events, and numerical data (such as amounts, ratios, and statistics). 4. Rewrite the extracted information into a natural, coherent, and well-structured paragraph. Instructions: - Do not include any explanations, headings, or commentary. - Do not repeat the existing content. - Output format: wrap the final supplementary paragraph within << and >>, for example: <<This is the new paragraph>>. - Do not output anything else beyond the wrapped content. Topic keyword: {topic} Existing content: {exist_content} Supplementary content: {supply_content} Please output the result directly. 

Table 13: Prompt template for merging supplementary segment into an existing node (knowledge organization). Prompt Template: Refusing Content into Coherent Wiki-Style Text 

You will receive a topic title and a set of information snippets related to that topic. Each snippet is in the format [index] text, indicating that the sentence was extracted from the original document at the given index. These snippets have already been selected for their relevance to the topic, but they may be redundant, fragmented, or lacking coherence. Your task is to process and reorganize them into a clean, coherent, and well-structured wiki-style text. Please follow these instructions when generating your output: 1. Ensure that all content revolves around the given title. 2. Eliminate redundancy and merge similar or repetitive information. 3. Organize the content into natural paragraphs, each ideally consisting of 1 to 3 sentences. 4. At the end of each paragraph, cite all index numbers that contributed to the content using this format: <1><3><5>. If the paragraph is based on multiple snippets, include all relevant index numbers. 5. Ensure that all key information from the original snippets is preserved and covered. Additionally, make sure that every snippet’s index is referenced in the final output, and no original snippet is left out or ignored. All snippet indexes should be included in one or more of the paragraphs, even if the content needs to be merged to fit the context. 6. Output only the wiki content - do not include any other explanation, notes, or formatting. Example: Title: Machine Learning Input snippets: [1] Machine learning is a method of artificial intelligence. [2] It enables systems to learn from data. [3] Machine learning relies on statistical techniques. [4] It can be used in image recognition and speech processing. Output: Machine learning is a method of artificial intelligence that relies on statistical techniques to enable systems to learn from data. <1><2><3> It is commonly applied in areas such as image recognition and speech processing. <4> ---Title: {title} Input snippets: {text} 

Table 14: Prompt template for reorganizing and fusing multiple snippets into coherent wiki-style content (knowledge organization). Prompt Template: Generating a Summary for a Node 

You will be given the content of a wiki node. Please summarize it concisely and objectively, clearly stating the main ideas and key information. Requirements: - The summary should be informative and between 100 and 200 words in length. - Ensure that the summary captures the essential content without introducing new information. Instructions: - Output only the summary result. - Do not include any explanation, reasoning, or additional text. Input: {text} 

Table 15: Prompt template for generating a concise summary of a node (knowledge organization). Prompt Template: Navigation-Based Retrieval in a Hierarchical Knowledge-Tree 

Your task is to assist in answering a natural language question by selecting relevant entries from a hierarchical Wiki knowledge base. The Wiki is organized as a tree structure: - Each node contains a list of entries (subtopics). - Each entry may contain further sub-entries. You are currently located at a specific node in this tree, indicated by the given path. At each step, you are given a list of entries at the current level. Each entry consists of a title and a summary. Evaluate each entry based on its relevance to the question: EXPLORE: - The title suggests that its sub-entries may contain useful information. - The summary is relevant but incomplete, requiring deeper exploration. INFO: - The summary already provides complete and useful information for a specific aspect of the question. - No further exploration is needed. The Wiki is hierarchical: - Higher-level nodes provide general summaries. - Deeper nodes provide more detailed and specific information. Use this structure to decide whether an entry should be used directly (INFO) or explored further (EXPLORE). ---Inputs: - Question: A natural language question based on a specific article. The Wiki is a structured reorganization of that article’s full content. - Entries: A list of entries in the current node, each in the format: id. title: summary - id: index of the entry - title: topic name - summary: concise overview of the topic - Path: the current position in the Wiki tree ---Output Format: For each selected entry, output one line: Index//Title//Category Category must be either INFO or EXPLORE. Example Output: 1//Climate Policy//EXPLORE 3//Carbon Emissions Statistics//INFO If no entries are relevant, output: None ---Important Constraints: - Output only the final result (no explanations or reasoning). - Assign exactly one category per selected entry. - Do not include irrelevant or redundant entries. ---Input: Path: {path} Entries: {entries} Question: {question} Please output only the result. 

Table 16: Prompt template for navigation-based retrieval over a hierarchical knowledge base (retrieval module). Prompt Template: Passage Selection at the Leaf Level 

You are an information retrieval assistant. Your task is to select the most relevant document passages that can help answer the user’s question. Each passage is labeled with a line number, such as "[0]", "[1]", etc. Use these numbers to refer to passages in your output. ---User Question: {query} Texts to be filtered: {texts} ---Instructions: 1. Return only the line numbers of passages that are relevant to the question. 2. If only one passage is relevant, output: 0// 3. If multiple passages are relevant, output: 0//2//5// 4. If none of the passages are relevant, output: None 5. Do not include any explanation or commentary. ---Example: User Question: What is the historical development of Apple? Texts to be filtered: [0] Apple Inc. was founded in 1976 by Steve Jobs and others. [1] Oranges are rich in vitamin C and are a common fruit. [2] The release of the iPhone significantly influenced the smartphone industry. Output: 0//2// ---Now, based on the rules and example above, please output your filtering result. 

Table 17: Prompt template for selecting relevant passages at the leaf level of the knowledge structure (retrieval module). Vanilla NaviRAG NaviRAG w/ Memory Document Anti-Peruvian sentiment Question How many times has Chile adopted anti_peru policies? Gold Answer 3 times. Response At least 5 times At least 7 times 3 times 

Table 18: Case study comparing responses from different methods. NaviRAG with memory produces the correct answer. 

Navigation Trajectories of NaviRAG without Memory 

Subtree 1: Anti-Peruvian Sentiment Across South American Nations 

• Role of Media and Politics in Fostering Anti-Peruvian Sentiment 

– Historical Conflicts and Anti-Peruvian Sentiment * Early Conflicts and Anti-Peruvian Sentiment * Diplomatic Maneuvers and Media Bias * Modern Diplomatic Tensions and Immigration Issues 

– Strategic Concerns and Regional Power Dynamics * Modern Incidents and Geopolitical Doctrines • Bolivian Nationalist Movements and Anti-Peruvian Sentiment 

Subtree 2: Geopolitical Implications of Anti-Peruvian Policies and Disputes 

• Impact of Anti-Peruvian Policies on Regional Relations 

– Chilean Anti-Peruvian Policies and Nationalism • Geopolitical Rivalries and Territorial Disputes 

– Economic and Military Policies Against Peru 

– Diplomatic and Military Interactions in the Late 20th Century 

– Historical Anti-Peruvian Sentiments in Bolivia 

Subtree 3: Diplomatic and Strategic Dynamics in 20th Century South America 

• Continuation of Tensions in the 20th Century 

Table 19: Navigation Trajectories of NaviRAG w/o Memory 

Navigation Trajectories of NaviRAG with Memory 

Subtree 1: Anti-Peruvian Sentiment Across South American Nations 

• Role of Media and Politics in Fostering Anti-Peruvian Sentiment 

– Historical Conflicts and Anti-Peruvian Sentiment 

– Strategic Concerns and Regional Power Dynamics • Bolivian Nationalist Movements and Anti-Peruvian Sentiment 

– Simón Bolívar’s Anti-Peruvian Strategies and Impact 

Subtree 2: Geopolitical Implications of Anti-Peruvian Policies and Disputes 

• Geopolitical Rivalries and Territorial Disputes 

– Economic and Military Policies Against Peru 

– Diplomatic and Military Interactions in the Late 20th Century 

– Historical Anti-Peruvian Sentiments in Bolivia 

– Anti-Peruvian Sentiment in Ecuador • Bolívar’s Derogatory Views on Peruvians and Their Military Capabilities • Peru as a Catalyst for Regional Discord 

– Impact of Anti-Peruvian Policies on Regional Relations 

Subtree 3: Diplomatic and Strategic Dynamics in 20th Century South America 

• Continuation of Tensions in the 20th Century 

Table 20: Navigation Trajectories of NaviRAG w/Memory B Case Studies 

B.1 Effect of Memory Mechanism 

We analyze the impact of the memory mechanism on navigational retrieval through a representative case study. We compare three settings: vanilla RAG, NaviRAG without memory, and NaviRAG with memory, including both the final outputs and their corresponding navigation trajectories. As shown in the case(Tables 18, 19 and 20), with-out memory-based global information integration, both vanilla RAG and NaviRAG (w/o memory) ex-hibit repeated counting of the same event, leading to incorrect answers. This suggests that retrieval and navigation relying solely on local semantic signals struggle to maintain a consistent global se-mantic state in multi-step reasoning. In contrast, with the memory mechanism, the model incrementally accumulates previously ac-quired information during navigation, forming a more coherent global representation. This enables more targeted navigation decisions, avoids redun-dant exploration, and significantly shortens the search path. As a result, the system can more ef-ficiently locate key evidence and produce correct answers. 

B.2 Analysis of Document Types 

We further analyze how document structure affects retrieval behavior by comparing two representative text types from the Loogle-long dataset: script and Wikipedia documents(Tables 21 and 22). Script documents exhibit strong semantic con-tinuity, where segments (e.g., scenes) form a co-herent narrative flow with high interdependence. In contrast, Wikipedia documents are organized into explicit sections corresponding to relatively independent topics, with weaker cross-section de-pendencies. These structural differences lead to distinct retrieval dynamics. For script-like texts, the continuous semantic flow facilitates both hi-erarchical organization and navigational explo-ration, allowing NaviRAG to progressively refine evidence localization. For Wikipedia documents, however, the inherent modular structure reduces cross-segment semantic cohesion, and the current knowledge construction process does not explicitly leverage such structural cues. Consequently, Navi-RAG shows weaker performance on Wikipedia compared to script-based documents. 

C Additional Experimental Results 

C.1 Efficiency under Different Top-k Settings 

We report the performance of NaviRAG and vanilla RAG under different top-k settings (Table 24). The detailed results complement the analysis presented in the main text and are included here for complete-ness. 

C.2 Batch-wise Generation Exploration 

During the knowledge base generation for 

LongBench-v2 , we encountered an issue: when the number of document slices becomes too large, the semantic differences between consecutive slices become too significant. As a result, new slices tend to accumulate at the outermost layer of the tree, repeatedly triggering clustering operations at the same level. This causes the original nodes to grad-ually shift deeper into the tree, leading to the loss of the hierarchical granularity structure. To address this, we introduced a batch-wise gen-eration strategy, where subtrees are generated in-dependently in each batch and then merged. The default batch size is set to 250, based on the num-ber of slices in the longest document in the Narra-tiveQA dataset. This strategy improves generation efficiency, es-pecially in long documents, effectively preventing "tree structure deformation." We further conducted experiments across all datasets with a batch size of 100, using LLaMA3.3-70B for inference (Tables 23). Results show that batch-wise generation improves both gener-ation efficiency and inference performance for Nar-rativeQA and LongBench-v2 . However, on the 

LooGLE dataset, where the text structure was ig-nored, the results were less favorable. Future work will focus on refining this strategy by incorporating a paragraph-based semantic batch-ing approach. 

D Future Work 

We outline several directions for extending Navi-RAG. 

Hybrid Retrieval Mechanism. One promising direction is to unify vertical navigation with hori-zontal structure-based retrieval. While NaviRAG focuses on hierarchical exploration, introducing ex-plicit cross-node connections may improve local evidence localization without sacrificing multi-step reasoning capability. Structure-aware Knowledge Organization. 

Another direction is to incorporate explicit doc-ument structures (e.g., sections and headings) into the knowledge organization process. Combining semantic continuity with structural cues may lead to more accurate and stable hierarchical representa-tions, and enable more flexible retrieval strategies. Furthermore, combining batch generation with se-mantic structures could significantly enhance gener-ation efficiency, enabling faster processing without compromising accuracy. 

Memory-driven Navigation. Finally, extending the navigation process with memory- or state-aware mechanisms may enable more effective global in-formation integration. Such approaches could sup-port more proactive retrieval behaviors and improve evidence utilization in complex reasoning scenar-ios. Internal Structure of a Script Document 

Category: Script 

Document Title: three-thousand-years-of-longing-2022 

Internal Structure 

1. Scene: Plane 2. Scene: Istanbul airport 3. Scene: Hotel 4. Scene: Conference hall 5. Scene: Grand Bazaar 6. Scene: Hotel bathroom (Djinn appears) 7. Scene: Djinn story – Sheba 8. Scene: Djinn story – Gülten 

Table 21: Internal Structure of a Script Document 

Internal Structure of a Wikipedia Document 

Category: Wikipedia 

Document Title: 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake 

Internal Structure 

• 1. Tectonic setting 

– 1.1 Geology 

– 1.2 Seismicity • 2. Earthquake sequence 

– 2.1 Mainshock (the first major earthquake) 

– 2.2 The Second Great Earthquake 

– . . . • . . . • 7. International humanitarian efforts 

– 7.1 Countries 

– 7.2 Arab League 

– . . . • 8. Reactions 

– 8.1 Criticism of the Turkish government 

– 8.2 Disaster management 

Table 22: Internal Structure of a Wikipedia Document Setting NarrativeQA Loogle LongBench v2 F1 Recall Short Long-Script Long-Wikipedia Default 32.60 78.69 79.04 45.01 44.88 42.72 BatchSize=100 33.54 (+0.94) 78.26 (-0.43) 76.84 (-2.2) 42.83 (-2.18) 42.70 (-2.18) 44.66 (+1.94) 

Table 23: Comparison of NaviRAG under the default setting and batch generation with batch size 100 across different datasets. 

k=3 k=5 k=7 k=9 k=15 Method F1 Tokens F1 Tokens F1 Tokens F1 Tokens F1 Tokens Vanilla 25.06 1536 27.80 2560 29.75 3584 30.24 4608 31.28 7908 NaviRAG 30.57 2089 32.60 3305 33.75 4392 33.22 5422 34.27 8411 

Table 24: Efficiency analysis under different retrieval depths ( k). We report F1 and the final context length (tokens).