Title: EfficientGraph-RAG: Structured Retrieval-State Management for Cross-Task Retrieval-Augmented Generation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.25379v1

Published Time: Tue, 26 May 2026 01:43:12 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# EfficientGraph-RAG: Structured Retrieval-State Management for Cross-Task Retrieval-Augmented Generation 

Miaohe Niu 1 Lianlei Shan 2† Zhengtao Yu 3 Jingbo Zhu 1,4 Tong Xiao 1,4†

> 1

School of Computer Science and Engineering, Northeastern University, China 

> 2

Tsinghua University, China 

> 3

Kunming University of Science and Technology, China 

> 4

NiuTrans Research, Shenyang, China niumiaohe@mails.neu.edu.cn shanlianlei18@mails.ucas.edu.cn xiaotong@mail.neu.edu.cn 

Abstract 

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has be-come the standard way to ground large lan-guage models in external knowledge, but many systems still organize evidence as flat chunks and retrieve it through largely unstructured search. This weak structure becomes a bottle-neck for complex retrieval: the system must decide where to search, how to move from coarse topics to entity–relation evidence, which evidence has been verified, and which inter-mediate artifacts can be reused. We define these intermediate variables as a retrieval state and study RAG as structured state manage-ment. EfficientGraph-RAG makes this state explicit through three coupled mechanisms: TAM defines a typed hierarchical state space over evidence, MARS updates and verifies the state through role-specialized agents, and SMP stores reusable state under hierarchy-aware access control. Using one shared frame-work configuration, EfficientGraph-RAG ranks first on the reported answer-quality metrics av-eraged over the three evaluated LongBench retrieval-style subsets, matches the strongest agentic baseline on HotpotQA EM while re-ducing large-model token usage by 3.51 ×,and provides a low-token DocVQA result among retrieval-organizing cross-modal meth-ods. Component analysis shows role-specific mechanisms: MARS is the main answer-quality driver, TAM supplies the typed traversal state and Adaptive Routing signal, and SMP en-ables corpus-dependent reuse, with cross-query cache hit rates ranging from 3.77% to 23.18%. 

1 Introduction 

1.1 Background and Motivation 

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2024) connects language models with external evidence, but its retrieval layer is often weakly structured. Evidence is com-monly stored as independent chunks, and a query is often answered by ranking local chunks or by placing retrieval decisions inside a large-model rea-soning loop. This works for local lookup, but be-comes fragile when answering requires structured search across evidence. Complex retrieval requires more than finding a similar passage. Multi-hop QA (Yang et al., 2018; Ho et al., 2020; Trivedi et al., 2022) re-quires moving across related entities and facts; long-context comprehension (Bai et al., 2024) re-quires avoiding irrelevant regions in long docu-ments; and document-image VQA (Mathew et al., 2021) requires deciding whether a small set of visual-caption regions is sufficient. Across these settings, the system must track where the search is, how it should be refined, which evidence has been verified, and what can be reused. We call this explicit record the retrieval state: a structured search space, update process, verification signal, and memory interface for reuse. 

1.2 Structured Retrieval State 

A retrieval state must provide structure that can be used during inference. Flat RAG (Lewis et al., 2020) stores knowledge as independent chunks and usually retrieves by similarity. This is effective for local lookup, but gives no explicit search space for moving from broad context to fine-grained ev-idence; multi-evidence questions must rediscover where to search instead of following a structured path. Adding structure alone is not enough. Graph-based RAG (Edge et al., 2024) organizes evidence through entity–relation graphs or communities, but the retrieval path can remain tied to precom-puted structure rather than the current reasoning need. Complex questions often require a query-conditioned path: locating a coarse semantic re-gion, refining toward entity–relation evidence, and selecting evidence-bearing leaves. Retrieval also needs explicit update and verifica-tion. Agentic RAG methods such as ReAct (Yao 1                                        

> arXiv:2605.25379v1 [cs.CL] 25 May 2026 flat chunks
> topic-level
> concept
> entity-relation
> abstraction
> raw evidence
> (lea f)
> query-adaptive state routing
> typed state space ,
> depth ≈O(log M)
> local entity–relation fragment
> iterative
> self-loop
> answer
> re ject re vise
> lower cost
> reusable state
> Planner
> plan
> small LM ×4large LM
> ×1
> route retrieve verify answer
> Navi-
> gator
> Re -
> triever Verifier Reasoner
> Entangled state update
> Large LM
> per -query
> context
> ephemeral context ,
> no controlled reuse
> Mg-global,
> cross-query reuse
> Mt-task-level,
> within-query
> agent coordination
> Ma-agent-
> private state
> Reasoner
> hierarchy-aware state access
> Planner
> Navigator
> Retriever
> Verifier
> ③State reuse
> controlled sharing
> ② State  update
> verify & revise
> ①St ate space
> evidence  organization
> Prior RAG EfficientGraph-RAG
> permitted
> R/W
> Chunk
> Entity Rel. Entity

Figure 1: Prior RAG vs. EfficientGraph-RAG from a retrieval-state view. 

et al., 2023) and Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2024) make retrieval iterative, but often place planning, evi-dence search, filtering, and answer generation in-side the same large model. The retrieval state is then kept mostly inside the model context, entan-gling retrieval-side decisions with final reasoning and reusable memory. EfficientGraph-RAG instantiates retrieval state as a concrete structure rather than hidden context. TAM defines a typed state space over evidence; MARS updates and verifies the query state; and SMP stores permitted state artifacts for coordina-tion and reuse. The retrieval state connects the three: TAM exposes a typed traversal path, MARS revises that path and its evidence through verifica-tion, and SMP preserves only state artifacts that agents are allowed to share or reuse. 

1.3 Contributions 

This work contributes a structured retrieval-state view of RAG. For a query, the retrieval state records the plan, typed traversal path, candidate or veri-fied evidence, verification signal, and reusable arti-facts. EfficientGraph-RAG makes this state explicit through TAM, which defines the typed state space; MARS, which updates and verifies the state; and SMP, which stores reusable state under controlled access. Together, they unify evidence structure, retrieval-time computation, and reusable memory under one state-management framework. Across three retrieval-augmented task families, the same configuration improves the accuracy– efficiency tradeoff over strong RAG baselines. It ranks first on the reported LongBench answer-quality metrics, matches the strongest HotpotQA agentic baseline within confidence intervals while reducing large-model token usage by 3.51 ×, and provides a low-token DocVQA result among retrieval-organizing cross-modal variants. Com-ponent analysis shows role-specific rather than ad-ditive mechanisms: MARS accounts for the largest LongBench quality effect, TAM supplies the typed traversal state and DocVQA Adaptive Routing signal, and SMP supports controlled cross-query reuse. 

2 Related Work 

2.1 Structured Retrieval and Model Roles 

Large language models (Touvron et al., 2023; Ope-nAI, 2023; Brown et al., 2020) and multimodal models (Li et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023) provide strong reasoning and image–text understanding, but knowledge-intensive tasks still require exter-nal evidence. For RAG, the central question is not only which model answers the question, but how retrieval is structured before the final model call. Recent model-collaboration work, such as Mixture-of-Agents (Wang et al., 2025), suggests that sepa-rating roles can improve over monolithic inference. EfficientGraph-RAG applies this idea to retrieval: planning, navigation, retrieval, and verification are treated as retrieval-side state updates, while final synthesis is reserved for the large Reasoner. 

2.2 Memory Systems in Language Models 

Most memory systems for language models treat memory as a temporal resource for a single agent or conversation. LongMem (Wang et al., 2023) sep-arates a backbone model from a memory retriever; MemoryBank (Zhong et al., 2024) maintains an up-datable memory with forgetting; MemGPT (Packer et al., 2024) introduces an operating-system-style memory hierarchy; and MemOS (Li et al., 2025) extends this view to scheduling and governance. 2Multi-agent retrieval needs a different kind of memory. Agents must share plans, traversal paths, candidate evidence, and verification results within a query. The system can also reuse stable artifacts such as embeddings, verified evidence, and docu-ment summaries across queries. Existing memory systems are not designed for this retrieval-specific coordination problem, especially when agents have different access rights. 

2.3 Retrieval-Augmented Generation 

Recent RAG work differs mainly in how it struc-tures external knowledge and how it executes retrieval. Hierarchical methods such as RAP-TOR (Sarthi et al., 2024) move beyond flat chunks by clustering passages into recursive summaries. TAM shares the goal of multi-granularity retrieval, but differs in node semantics and routing. Its in-ternal nodes are typed: mid-level nodes represent entity–relation abstractions, while high-level nodes represent topic-level concepts. Queries are routed by comparing them with child abstractions at each level, rather than by using a fixed traversal pattern. Graph-based methods such as GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024; Peng et al., 2024) organize knowl-edge through entity–relation graphs and commu-nity structure. These methods provide rich global organization, but the retrieval path can remain tied to precomputed graph structure. TAM instead uses a tree hierarchy whose branch choices are made at inference time according to the current query. Agentic methods such as ReAct (Yao et al., 2023), Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2024), and Agentic-RAG (Singh et al., 2025) make retrieval iterative by interleaving search, critique, and reasoning. How-ever, they typically use the same large model for both retrieval-side decisions and final synthesis. MARS separates these roles: small-model agents handle planning, navigation, retrieval, and verifi-cation, while the large model is reserved for final reasoning. EfficientGraph-RAG further adds SMP to manage state sharing and reuse across this multi-agent process. 

3 Method 

3.1 Overall Framework 

EfficientGraph-RAG instantiates retrieval as struc-tured state management. For a query q over corpus 

D, we represent the retrieval state as 

sq = ( pq, π q, E q, z q, U q),

where pq is the query plan, πq is the traversal path in TAM, Eq is the candidate or verified evidence set, zq is the verification signal, and Uq contains reusable artifacts such as cached chunks, embed-dings, intermediate paths, and verified evidence. This is not a dialogue state or a hidden model state; it is an explicit retrieval object that records how the search is structured, updated, verified, and reused. The three components of EfficientGraph-RAG operate on different parts of this state. TAM defines the state space for πq and Eq by building a typed hierarchy over evidence. MARS updates pq, πq,

Eq, and zq through planning, navigation, retrieval, and verification, and invokes the large-model Rea-soner only after evidence passes verification. SMP stores selected elements of Uq and controls which agents may read or write them. Retrieval is iterative. The system first locates a coarse semantic region in TAM, then refines and verifies candidate evidence through MARS. Inter-mediate plans, paths, evidence, and verification outputs are written to SMP for within-query coor-dination and permitted cross-query reuse. Figure 2 summarizes the data flow, re-planning loop, adap-tive bypass, TAM traversal, and SMP access. Sec-tion 3.2 describes TAM, and Section 3.3 describes the coupled MARS–SMP procedure. 

3.2 Tree-based Abstract Memory 

TAM defines the structured state space over evi-dence. In flat RAG, the retrieval state is nearly unstructured: evidence is stored as independent chunks and retrieval jumps directly from a query to a ranked list. TAM instead represents the corpus as a typed tree in which a query state can move from coarse topic regions to entity–relation abstractions and finally to evidence-bearing leaves. Leaves store raw evidence, such as text passages, image–caption pairs, or table fragments. Mid-level nodes encode entity–relation abstractions within local regions, while high-level nodes encode topic-level concepts and reusable reasoning patterns. A traversal path πq through this tree is therefore part of the retrieval state: early nodes represent a coarse search state, mid-level nodes represent relational search constraints, and leaves represent concrete evidence candidates. Unlike generic recursive-summary methods such as RAPTOR (Sarthi et al., 2024), TAM assigns different retrieval roles to dif-ferent levels rather than treating internal nodes as progressively shorter summaries. These levels de-fine the state space through which a query moves, 3Retrieval State 

> plan · path · evidence

State Verification     

> evidence →Verifier →verdict

State Transition                               

> plan →path →evidence
> Planner Navigator Retriever
> State Initialization
> typed evidence hierarchy
> topic-level
> entity-relation
> raw evidence
> State Persistence /Reuse
> Mg
> global
> cross-query
> reuse
> within-query
> coordination
> SMP: stores &reuses state
> MARS: verifies state
> MARS: updates state
> TAM: defines state space
> query q
> FA IL→Revise state
> Mt
> task
> Ma
> private
> PASS Reasoner Answer
> verification · reuse agent-private
> state

Figure 2: Retrieval-state lifecycle in EfficientGraph-RAG. TAM defines the typed state space, MARS updates and verifies the state, and SMP stores and shares reusable state under controlled access. 

from coarse topics to entity–relation abstractions and finally to evidence-bearing leaves. This typing is used during routing rather than only for stor-age. Mid-level abstractions emphasize entity and relation cues that help multi-hop questions locate supporting facts, while high-level abstractions em-phasize broader topic cues that help long-context questions avoid irrelevant regions. The Navigator therefore compares a query against abstractions whose semantics depend on the tree level: early de-cisions identify a coarse region, and later decisions refine toward evidence-bearing leaves. This level-specific use of abstractions is the main distinction between TAM and a homogeneous summary tree. Formally, given a corpus D, we segment it into atomic evidence units L = {l1, . . . , l M } that form the leaves and recursively build a tree T over them. For any non-leaf node v ∈ T , we assign a natural-language abstraction av derived from its children: 

av = fsumm ({au | u ∈ Child( v)}) , (1) where fsumm (·) is a small-model summarizer. These abstractions let the system search from coarse regions to concrete evidence. Given a query 

q, TAM retrieves evidence top-down. At each level, the query is compared with the abstractions of can-didate child nodes. Let B(t) denote the retained beam at level t, which is initialized with the root. TAM updates the beam by selecting the top-k child nodes: 

B(t+1) = TopK u∈S  

> v∈B(t)Child( v)

g(q, a u), (2) where g(·, ·) measures textual relevance between the query and a node abstraction. When k = 1 ,this reduces to greedy top-down routing. The re-tained beam is chosen at inference time for the current query and is expanded until it reaches leaf evidence. With average branching factor b, depth h, and r

retained branches per level, TAM performs O(rbh )

abstraction-level comparisons. For a balanced hier-archy with constant b and r, h = O(log b M ), giv-ing logarithmic-depth routing over M leaf evidence units. Final reranking is over the reached leaves 

Cq, with cost O(|Cq|). This is a routing-state com-plexity, not a claim of asymptotic superiority over ANN-indexed flat retrieval; TAM’s contribution is to expose a typed, query-conditioned retrieval state for verification and reuse. This state is the inter-face consumed by MARS: the Navigator chooses a typed traversal path, the Retriever selects leaves from the reached state, and the Verifier decides whether the resulting evidence state is sufficient. Construction and abstraction generation are offline and amortized across queries. 

Adaptive Routing. In document VQA, some queries are grounded in a small number of caption 4regions. For such cases, running the full MARS loop can add cost without improving evidence se-lection. TAM therefore exposes the number of leaves as a routing signal. If the tree contains fewer than τ leaves, the system bypasses MARS and sends the available evidence directly to the Rea-soner. This decision is data-dependent: the bypass is common on DocVQA but rarely triggered on HotpotQA or LongBench. Section 4.4 reports its trigger rate and effect. 

3.3 Multi-Agent Retrieval and Shared Memory 

TAM defines the retrieval-state space, but the system must still decide how this state is up-dated, verified, and preserved. In terms of sq =(pq, π q, E q, z q, U q), MARS updates the query-side state: the Planner updates pq, the Navigator updates 

πq, the Retriever updates Eq, and the Verifier up-dates zq. The Reasoner consumes verified evidence but does not control the retrieval loop. Many LLM-based retrieval systems use one large model to plan the query, explore candidates, filter evidence, and produce the answer. This spends large-model tokens on retrieval-side deci-sions and entangles retrieval state updates with final reasoning. We instead use MARS for retrieval state updates and SMP to store and share reusable state artifacts across agents and queries. 

MARS: asymmetric multi-agent retrieval. 

Given a query q and TAM tree T , MARS instan-tiates five agents A = {ap, a n, a r, a ver , a s}. The Planner ap decomposes the query into retrieval goals; the Navigator an traverses TAM; the Retriever ar selects concrete evidence; the Verifier 

aver checks relevance and sufficiency; and the Reasoner as generates the final answer. Only as

uses the large model. The other agents use a small model, which keeps retrieval-side computation away from the large-model context. Retrieval proceeds as a state-transition loop. At iteration t, the shared state st contains the query plan, traversal history, candidate evidence, and ver-ification signal. The Planner, Navigator, Retriever, and Verifier update this state as 

st+1 = FMARS (st, q, T ). (3) Here, FMARS denotes one retrieval-state up-date consisting of Planner–Navigator–Retriever– Verifier operations. The loop stops when the Veri-fier accepts the evidence or the retrieval budget is reached: 

aver (q, E t) = 1 or t ≥ Tmax .

The accepted evidence E⋆ is then passed to the Reasoner, y = as(q, E ⋆). If verification fails, the failure signal updates the retrieval state through re-planning and re-retrieval instead of being sent to the large model. This decomposition exposes different retrieval failure modes. Planning failures require rewriting or decomposing the query; navigation failures require selecting a different TAM branch; retrieval failures require replacing candidate evi-dence; and verification failures identify whether the current evidence is irrelevant, insufficient, or inconsistent. MARS keeps these decisions explicit, allowing the system to revise the retrieval state be-fore invoking the large Reasoner. 

SMP: shared memory pool. SMP stores re-trieval state in three tiers, M = {M g, Mt, Ma}.The global memory Mg stores cross-query reusable resources, such as embedding caches, per-sistent retrieval summaries, and stable knowledge states. The task memory Mt holds shared state for the current query, including planning results, traversal paths, candidate evidence, and verifica-tion outputs. The agent-private memory Ma stores local working state such as search hypotheses or temporary buffers. 

Hierarchy-aware access control. Fully open shared memory risks state interference be-tween agents with different roles. SMP treats each memory operation as an access re-quest r = (agent , level , op) , where op ∈{read , write , update }, and permits the request only when Permit( r) = 1 . Permissions depend on both agent role and memory tier. For exam-ple, a retrieval-side agent may read Mg and write 

Mt, but cannot access another agent’s Ma. The goal is to preserve memory reuse while avoiding uncontrolled information flow across agents. In practice, we use a fixed role-level policy. The Plan-ner and Navigator can read Mg and read or write 

Mt; the Retriever reads Mg and Mt and writes retrieved evidence to Mt; the Verifier reads can-didate evidence from Mt and writes verification signals to Mt; and the Reasoner reads accepted evidence from Mt. Agent-private memory Ma is accessible only to the owning agent. 

State reuse. A reusable state artifact ut produced at iteration t can be written to task or global mem-5ory ( ut → M t or ut → M g) and later read by per-mitted agents. This is useful during Verifier-driven re-search: the system can reuse explored paths and verified evidence rather than solving the same sub-problem again. The reuse rate varies across corpora and is measured in Section 4.4. 

4 Experiments 

4.1 Datasets and Experimental Setup 

We evaluate EfficientGraph-RAG across three retrieval-augmented task families. Hot-potQA (Yang et al., 2018) is the standard multi-hop QA benchmark; we use the full distrac-tor dev split ( n=7 ,405 ). LongBench (Bai et al., 2024) is a long-context understanding benchmark; we evaluate three retrieval-intensive QA tasks from it ( hotpotqa , 2wikimqa , musique ), sampling 200 questions from each ( n=600 total). These tasks cover multi-hop aggregation, entity-centric comparison, and chained supporting facts. Context lengths range from roughly 5K to 15K words. 

DocVQA (Mathew et al., 2021) is the cross-modal document-image benchmark; we use a uniformly sampled subset of n=2 ,000 items from the standard validation split. We report each benchmark’s standard answer-quality metrics: Exact Match (EM) and token-level F1 for HotpotQA and the LongBench sub-tasks above, and ANLS for DocVQA. When compar-ing EM or accuracy values, we use 95% binomial confidence intervals at the corresponding sample size; F1 and ANLS are reported as point estimates. Efficiency is measured by Token and LM Lat., which report large-model-side cost. For single-LM baselines, retrieval and final synthesis are exe-cuted by the same large model, so measured latency corresponds to LM latency. For EfficientGraph-RAG, LM Lat. reports the Reasoner-side Qwen2.5-14B portion; retrieval-side Qwen2.5-7B agents are treated as smaller retrieval infrastructure. Ap-pendix A.4 details this accounting. All methods share the same backbone: Qwen2.5-14B as the large reasoning model and Qwen2.5-7B for the four small-model agents in MARS. On DocVQA, all methods share the same VL caption front-end (Qwen-VL-Plus), so the comparison re-flects differences in the downstream RAG pipeline alone. Decoding is greedy throughout. We use the same backbone, decoding setup, MARS bud-get, and answer prompts across tasks, without task-specific fine-tuning. Adaptive Routing uses a fixed leaf-count threshold selected before evaluation. 

4.2 Baselines 

We compare against five RAG baselines cover-ing the main paradigms discussed in Section 2.3: 

Vanilla RAG (flat top-k chunk retrieval with single-pass generation); the agentic family ReAct (Yao et al., 2023), Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2024), and 

Agentic-RAG , all of which drive retrieval-side and reasoning-side steps with the same large model; and GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024), which or-ganizes the corpus through community detection over an entity-relation graph. For DocVQA we use the cross-modal counterpart of each (Vanilla-VL, ReAct-VL, Self-VL, Agentic-VL, Graph-VL), shar-ing the same VL caption front-end with our method. All methods use the same backbone (Qwen2.5-14B / 7B) and matched task-level answer prompts; only the retrieval architecture varies. For each baseline, we keep the retrieval budget and answer-generation format matched to its paradigm. Flat and graph-based methods receive the same final-answer prompt as our Reasoner, while agentic base-lines use their standard iterative retrieval interface with the same large model used for final synthesis. This setup is intended to compare retrieval organi-zation rather than prompt specialization or model scale. 

4.3 Main Results 

Table 1 reports the main results. All methods, in-cluding ours, run under the single configuration described in Section 4.1. 

LongBench: strongest aggregate performance. 

On LongBench-600, EfficientGraph-RAG ranks first on both reported metrics: EM 0.362 (+4.4 points over ReAct’s 0.318) and F1 0.454 (+4.0 points over ReAct’s 0.414). The efficiency gain is also clear: EfficientGraph-RAG uses 708 to-kens per query, 2.77 × fewer than ReAct, with lower LM latency than all agentic and graph base-lines. The gain is consistent across the three eval-uated LongBench sub-tasks: EfficientGraph-RAG obtains the highest EM on hotpotqa, 2wikimqa, and musique, with the largest absolute gain on 2wikimqa. EfficientGraph-RAG is the only method that ranks first on LongBench while remaining within the 95% CI of the strongest HotpotQA base-line. Self-RAG and Agentic-RAG, which both reach 0.487 EM on HotpotQA (vs. ReAct’s 0.516), drop to 0.307 and 0.248 EM, respectively, on Long-6Table 1: Main results                                                                                       

> Method Paradigm LongBench (AVG) HotpotQA DocVQA
> EM ↑F1 ↑Token ↓LM Lat. ↓EM ↑F1 ↑Token ↓LM Lat. ↓ANLS ↑Token ↓LM Lat. ↓
> Vanilla RAG Flat 0.313 0.404 798 0.60s 0.480 0.603 586 0.45s 0.804 633 7.9s ReAct Agentic 0.318 0.414 1,958 5.93s 0.516 0.645 1,678 5.94s 0.806 1,652 16.6s Self-RAG Agentic 0.307 0.396 1,935 6.05s 0.487 0.617 1,391 5.39s 0.749 1,482 12.7s Agentic-RAG Agentic 0.248 0.352 2,466 5.80s 0.487 0.630 1,594 4.31s 0.649 1,357 13.6s GraphRAG Graph 0.182 0.225 1,449 13.16s 0.342 0.439 7,177 70.73s 0.312 3,155 35.1s
> EfficientGraph-RAG Hierarchical 0.362 0.454 708 1.87s 0.511 0.640 478 1.94s 0.755 607 5.73s
> Note: Token and LM Lat. denote large-model-side cost. For single-LM baselines, latency is measured for the large-model pipeline; EfficientGraph-RAG reports Reasoner-side Qwen2.5-14B latency. Best and second-best values are bolded and underlined.

Bench; GraphRAG falls to 0.182 EM. 

HotpotQA: matching ReAct at lower large-model cost. On HotpotQA-7405, EfficientGraph-RAG obtains EM 0.511, within the 95% confi-dence interval of ReAct’s 0.516 ( ±1.14 points at 

n = 7 ,405 ), with F1 following the same pattern (0.640 vs. 0.645). The efficiency difference is sub-stantial: our method uses 478 tokens per query compared with ReAct’s 1,678, a 3.51 × reduction, and its LM latency is lower than the single-LM agentic baselines. GraphRAG illustrates the op-posite extreme: it spends 7,177 large-model to-kens per query but reaches only 0.342 EM, whereas EfficientGraph-RAG uses 478 tokens and reaches 0.511 EM. This aggregate reduction reflects a distributional shift rather than uniform compression. Table 2 shows that EfficientGraph-RAG places 85.1% of queries below 800 large-model tokens, whereas Re-Act places 95.8% in the 1,200–2,500-token range and GraphRAG concentrates almost all queries above 2,500 tokens. None of our queries reaches the 1,800-token-or-above regime; full bin details are reported in Appendix F.1. 

DocVQA: low-token retrieval organization un-der an ANLS tradeoff. On DocVQA-2000, EfficientGraph-RAG reaches ANLS 0.755 with 607 tokens and 5.73s LM latency, giving a 2.72 × token reduction over ReAct-VL (0.806 ANLS, 1,652 to-kens, 16.6s LM latency) at a 5.1-point ANLS gap. Among methods that add retrieval organization be-yond flat VL-caption retrieval, it uses the fewest tokens while outperforming Self-VL, Agentic-VL, and Graph-VL on ANLS. Vanilla-VL also remains stronger on ANLS (0.804), consistent with many DocVQA queries referencing a single page with few caption regions, where flat top-k VL-caption retrieval is already strong. These results show a token-quality tradeoff in cross-modal retrieval: the same configuration serves as a low-token retrieval-organizing framework, while TAM’s leaf-count sig-nal bypasses MARS on short-context queries rather than forcing the full multi-agent loop, allowing the same framework to use direct reasoning when the document evidence is already compact (Sec-tion 4.4). 

Adaptive Routing explains the DocVQA trans-fer. On DocVQA, TAM’s leaf-count bypass is triggered on 40.7% of queries. Without this routing mechanism, running MARS uniformly on every query drops ANLS by 1.87 points. Appendix H sweeps τ on a DocVQA subset and shows that the bypass fraction varies from 0% to 93%, with ANLS following an inverted-U curve whose peak remains close to the default threshold. The framework there-fore adapts its retrieval procedure to query struc-ture rather than applying the full pipeline uniformly across modalities. 

4.4 Component Analysis 

We ablate the mechanisms that define, update, and reuse retrieval state under the same configuration. Table 3 reports LongBench-600 aggregate met-rics, and Table 4 reports global-memory reuse and Verifier-guided recovery events. 

Role-specific ablation. On LongBench-600, re-moving MARS gives the only statistically signif-icant drop: EM falls from 0.362 to 0.328, out-side the ±3.84 point 95% confidence interval at 

n = 600 . Removing TAM or SMP remains within this interval, including the slightly higher w/o TAM EM, so the ablation should not be read as an ad-7Table 2: HotpotQA token-budget distribution.                                                   

> Token Bin Vanilla ReAct Self-RAG Agentic GraphRAG Ours Ours EM
> <500 17.0 0.0 3.2 0.4 0.0 62.0 0.555
> 500–800 81.9 0.0 1.6 0.7 0.0 23.1 0.468 800–1,200 1.0 4.1 33.0 61.8 0.0 10.7 0.365 1,200–1,800 0.0 67.7 38.1 7.8 0.2 1.4 0.262 1,800–2,500 0.0 28.1 21.9 10.7 0.1 0.0 –2,500+ 0.0 0.0 0.1 18.6 99.6 0.0 –
> Note: Entries are percentages over each method’s 7,405 queries; “Ours EM” is bin-level EM. Full details are in Appendix F.1.

Table 3: Component ablation.                          

> Setting EM F1 Acc. Tok. Full 0.362 0.454 0.408 708
> w/o SMP 0.358 0.454 0.408 712 w/o TAM 0.370 0.455 0.412 589 w/o MARS 0.328 0.424 0.370 741 only MARS 0.367 0.474 0.432 727
> Note: LongBench-600 results. Full = TAM+MARS+SMP; tokens are large-model tokens.

Table 4: Pipeline internal statistics.                   

> Property HotpotQA LongBench DocVQA
> n7,405 600 2,000
> Mghit rate 3.77% 16.49% 23.18% Recovery events 714 64 96 Recovery rate 9.64% 10.67% 4.80%
> Note: Mghit rate measures document-level global-memory reuse. Recovery events are Verifier-guided second-pass cases ending with a correct answer.

ditive accuracy decomposition. Instead, it sepa-rates retrieval-state roles: MARS accounts for the largest LongBench quality effect, TAM supplies the typed traversal state and the leaf-count signal for Adaptive Routing on DocVQA, and SMP sup-plies controlled state sharing and corpus-dependent reuse. 

Routing, reuse, and recovery. TAM and SMP affect the structure and persistence of retrieval state rather than LongBench aggregate EM alone. Re-moving TAM also removes the typed traversal state consumed by MARS and the Adaptive Routing signal used on DocVQA. This distinction matters because LongBench evaluates moderate 5K–15K-word contexts, where only-MARS can remain com-petitive, whereas DocVQA exposes the need to decide when the full multi-agent loop should be bypassed. Removing SMP similarly eliminates the controlled mechanism for sharing reusable state artifacts across agents and queries. 

Verifier-guided recovery. The Verifier-guided loop produces recovery events on 9.64% of Hot-potQA queries, 10.67% of LongBench queries, and 4.80% of DocVQA queries (Table 4). The rates are roughly 2 × higher on the two text-heavy bench-marks than on DocVQA, consistent with multi-source and long-context queries benefiting more from explicit verification. Together, the ablation and internal statistics support a role-specific inter-pretation: MARS accounts for the largest Long-Bench quality effect, TAM supplies the typed traversal state and Adaptive Routing signal, and SMP contributes controlled state sharing and cross-query reuse. 

5 Conclusion 

EfficientGraph-RAG frames complex RAG as structured retrieval-state management. TAM de-fines a typed state space over evidence, MARS up-dates and verifies this state through role-specialized agents, and SMP stores and reuses state under con-trolled access. Across three evaluated task fam-ilies, the framework ranks first on the reported LongBench answer-quality metrics and matches the strongest HotpotQA agentic baseline within confidence intervals while reducing reported to-ken usage by 3.51 ×. On DocVQA, it provides a low-token DocVQA result under an ANLS trade-off, using fewer large-model tokens than retrieval-organizing VL variants while trading off against the strongest VL baselines in ANLS. Component anal-ysis shows role-specific mechanisms rather than additive gains: MARS accounts for the largest qual-ity effect, TAM supplies the typed traversal state and the leaf-count signal for Adaptive Routing, and SMP supports controlled cross-query reuse. The reported efficiency follows the Token and LM Lat. accounting in Table 1, not hardware-normalized FLOPs or end-to-end runtime. 8Limitations. We note several limitations. The MARS verification loop reduces, but does not elim-inate, failures introduced by TAM routing. In man-ually inspected failure cases, residual TAM-related errors often stem from small-model summaries that confuse entities, omit fine-grained details, or asso-ciate evidence across documents incorrectly (Ap-pendix F). This suggests that entity-grounded or detail-preserving summarization could further im-prove the robustness of TAM construction. Our cross-modal evaluation is also limited to DocVQA, where the leaf-count threshold for Adaptive Rout-ing is calibrated to the distribution of document-image questions. Whether the same routing signal transfers unchanged to video QA, scientific figure understanding, or other multimodal retrieval set-tings remains open. Finally, the cross-task claim is supported by three task families and 10,005 queries; broader forms of transfer, such as dialogue-state re-trieval, code retrieval, or cross-lingual retrieval, are not evaluated here. In deployment, treating Mg as a shared resource across users rather than the per-user resource used in our experiments may change corpus-dependent reuse behavior, especially in ser-vices built around templated or recurring docu-ments. 

References 

Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024. Self-RAG: Learning to retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection. In International Conference on Learning Representa-tions (ICLR) .Yushi Bai, Xin Lv, Jiajie Zhang, Hongchang Lyu, Jiankai Tang, Zhidian Huang, Zhengxiao Du, Xiao Liu, Aohan Zeng, Lei Hou, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang, and Juanzi Li. 2024. LongBench: A bilingual, multi-task benchmark for long context understanding. In 

Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (ACL) , pages 3119–3137. Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, and 1 others. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , volume 33, pages 1877–1901. Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A graph RAG approach to query-focused summariza-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130 .Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. 2024. Retrieval-Augmented Gen-eration for Large Language Models: A Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997 .Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop QA dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reason-ing steps. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING) ,pages 6609–6625. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In Advances in Neural Infor-mation Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , volume 33, pages 9459–9474. Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven C. H. Hoi. 2023. BLIP-2: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and large language models. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) .Zhiyu Li, Shichao Song, Hanyu Wang, Simin Niu, Ding Chen, Jiawei Yang, Chenyang Xi, Huayi Lai, Ji-hao Zhao, Yezhaohui Wang, Junpeng Ren, Zehao Lin, Jiahao Huo, Tianyi Chen, Kai Chen, Kehang Li, Zhiqiang Yin, Qingchen Yu, Bo Tang, and 3 others. 2025. MemOS: An operating system for memory-augmented generation (MAG) in large language mod-els. Preprint , arXiv:2505.22101. Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. 2023. Visual instruction tuning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) .Minesh Mathew, Dimosthenis Karatzas, and C. V. Jawa-har. 2021. DocVQA: A dataset for VQA on docu-ment images. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Win-ter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV) , pages 2200–2209. OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 .Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang, Shishir G. Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E. Gonzalez. 2024. MemGPT: Towards LLMs as operating sys-tems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560 .Boci Peng, Yun Zhu, Yongchao Liu, Xiaohe Bo, Haizhou Shi, Chuntao Hong, Yan Zhang, and Siliang Tang. 2024. Graph retrieval-augmented generation: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.08921 .Parth Sarthi, Salman Abdullah, Aditi Tuli, Shubh Khanna, Anna Goldie, and Christopher D. Manning. 2024. RAPTOR: Recursive abstractive processing for tree-organized retrieval. In International Confer-ence on Learning Representations (ICLR) .

9Aditi Singh, Abul Ehtesham, Saket Kumar, and Tala Ta-laei Khoei. 2025. Agentic retrieval-augmented gen-eration: A survey on agentic RAG. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.09136 .Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, Aurelien Rodriguez, Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, and Guillaume Lample. 2023. LLaMA: Open and efficient foundation language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971 .Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multi-hop questions via single-hop question composition. 

Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL) , 10:539–554. Junlin Wang, Jue Wang, Ben Athiwaratkun, Ce Zhang, and James Zou. 2025. Mixture-of-Agents Enhances Large Language Model Capabilities. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Repre-sentations .Weizhi Wang, Li Dong, Hao Cheng, Xiaodong Liu, Xifeng Yan, Jianfeng Gao, and Furu Wei. 2023. Aug-menting language models with long-term memory. In 

Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) .Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Ben-gio, William W. Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answer-ing. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP) , pages 2369–2380. Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) .Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. 2024. MemoryBank: Enhancing large language models with long-term memory. In Pro-ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence .

10 Table 5: Main hyperparameters.                 

> Component Setting
> Large model Qwen2.5-14B Small model Qwen2.5-7B DocVQA VL front-end Qwen-VL-Plus Decoding Greedy, temperature 0 TAM traversal Top-down query-adaptive routing MARS agents Planner, Navigator, Retriever, Veri-fier, Reasoner MARS max iterations 2SMP tiers Mg,Mt,Ma
> Adaptive Routing Leaf-count threshold τon DocVQA Efficiency metric Large-model-side tokens and LM latency

A Reproducibility and Configuration 

A.1 Hardware and Software 

All experiments are run on a local GPU server with NVIDIA RTX 3090 GPUs. We use Python 3.10 with PyTorch and the HuggingFace Transform-ers ecosystem for local preprocessing, retrieval, and evaluation. Embedding-based retrieval uses a sentence-transformer encoder. All reported num-bers are computed with the same evaluation scripts across methods. 

A.2 Models and Decoding 

All methods share the same backbone configura-tion. The large reasoning model is Qwen2.5-14B, and the small retrieval-side model used by the Plan-ner, Navigator, Retriever, and Verifier is Qwen2.5-7B. For DocVQA, all methods share the same vision-language captioning front-end (Qwen-VL-Plus), so the comparison isolates the downstream RAG architecture. Decoding is greedy through-out, with temperature set to 0. For evaluation, the global memory Mg is initialized separately for each benchmark and is never shared across datasets. Within a benchmark, Mg may persist across queries to cache document-level chunks, embeddings, and retrieval summaries, but it does not store gold answers, labels, or question–answer pairs. Task memory Mt and agent-private memory 

Ma are cleared after each query. 

A.3 Main Hyperparameters 

Table 5 summarizes the main configuration used in all experiments. The same configuration is used across HotpotQA, LongBench, and DocVQA un-less otherwise stated. 

A.4 Efficiency Accounting 

Our efficiency metrics report large-model-side cost. This accounting separates expensive reasoning-side model usage from retrieval-side small-model in-frastructure: Qwen2.5-7B agents implement plan-ning, navigation, retrieval, and verification, while Qwen2.5-14B is reserved for the final Reasoner. The LM-latency column in Table 1 reports large-model-side latency rather than end-to-end runtime. For single-LM baselines, retrieval and generation are executed by the same large model, so measured latency corresponds to large-model-side latency. For EfficientGraph-RAG, LM latency reports the Reasoner-side Qwen2.5-14B portion. We interpret the reported 3.51 × HotpotQA re-duction as a large-model-side cost reduction, not as a hardware-normalized reduction in total FLOPs or end-to-end wall-clock latency. The goal is to reserve expensive large-model context and infer-ence for final synthesis after evidence has been structured and verified. 

Evaluation integrity of Mg. For evaluation, 

Mg is initialized as part of the pipeline instance for each benchmark run and is never shared across datasets. Within a benchmark, Mg persists across queries by design: it caches document-level chunk text and embedding vectors to support reuse when the same document appears in multiple queries. It does not store gold answers, labels, or question– answer pairs. Task memory Mt and agent-private memory Ma are cleared after every query. 

Execution mode and reuse. We also checked whether Mg reuse depends on execution mode. On LongBench, serial execution preserves the ag-gregate answer-quality metrics while increasing the average Mg hit rate, with the largest increases on 2WikiMQA and MuSiQue. This supports the view that Mg captures cross-query reuse when docu-ment structures or semantic regions recur across queries. On DocVQA, by contrast, the hit rate does not show an increasing trend from early to late queries, suggesting that reuse is dominated by query-local caption-fragment reuse rather than benchmark-level cache accumulation. 

A.5 Random Seeds and Code Availability 

For all sampled subsets, we use a fixed random seed to ensure that different methods are evaluated on the same examples. HotpotQA uses the full distractor development split and therefore does not 11 require sampling. Code, prompts, and evaluation scripts will be released with the final version of the paper. Exact deployment cost depends on serving configuration; we therefore report the Token and LM Lat. metrics defined in Table 1. 

B Prompt Templates 

This section summarizes the prompt templates used by the MARS agents. The templates follow the implementation used in our experiments; minor formatting details such as whitespace are omitted for readability. 

B.1 Planner 

Planner prompt 

You are a query planner for a retrieval system. Given a user query, decompose it into: 1. Main intent: what is the user asking? 2. Sub-queries: break complex questions into simpler retrieval targets. 3. Key entities: important entities to search for. 4. Query type: factual / multi-hop / summarization / reasoning. 

Query: {query} Output your analysis in a structured format: 

INTENT: <main intent> SUB_QUERIES: <comma-separated sub-queries> ENTITIES: <comma-separated key entities> TYPE: <query type> 

B.2 Navigator 

The Navigator uses the original query for TAM traversal and evaluates the quality of the retrieved path hypotheses. 

Navigator path-evaluation prompt 

Evaluate these retrieval paths for the query. Score 0.0–1.0. 

Query: {query} 

Paths: 

{path descriptions with node types, text previews, and evidence counts} 

PATH_SCORE: RATIONALE: 

B.3 Retriever 

Retriever prompt 

You are an evidence selector. Given a query and candi-date evidence chunks, score each chunk’s relevance to answering the query. 

Query: {query} 

Candidates: 

{candidate evidence chunks} For each candidate, output a relevance score from 0.0 to 1.0: 

CANDIDATE_<number>: <score> 

Then output: 

SELECTED: <comma-separated numbers of the most relevant candidates, max k>

B.4 Verifier 

Verifier prompt 

You are an evidence verifier. Evaluate whether the re-trieved evidence is sufficient to answer the query. 

Query: {query} 

Retrieved Evidence: 

{evidence block} Evaluate on three criteria: 1. RELEVANCE : Is the evidence related to the query? (0–1) 2. SUFFICIENCY : Does the evidence contain enough in-formation to answer? (0–1) 3. CONSISTENCY : Is the evidence internally consistent? (0–1) Output format: 

RELEVANCE: <score> SUFFICIENCY: <score> CONSISTENCY: <score> VERDICT: PASS or FAIL REASON: <brief explanation> 

B.5 Reasoner 

The Reasoner is the only large-model agent and produces the final answer from verified evidence. 

Reasoner prompt 

Answer the question using ONLY the evidence below. 

Rules: 

• Give the shortest possible answer: a name, date, yes/no, or short phrase. • Do not explain or add context. • If comparing two things, answer with just the name or “yes”/“no”. • If the evidence is insufficient, give your best guess from what is available. 

Question: {query} 

Evidence: 

{evidence block} 

Answer (short, precise): 

The Reasoner also uses the following system instruction: 12 Algorithm 1 TAM construction with document-level global reuse 

Input: Documents D, embedding model ϕ, summarizer fsum ,global memory Mg

Output: TAM tree T = ( V, E ) with root r

1: V ← ∅ , E ← ∅ 

2: for each document d ∈ D do 

3: kd ← CacheKey( d)

4: ud ← Read( Mg , k d, tam _builder) 

5: if ud̸ = ∅ then 

6: Reuse cached chunks and embeddings from ud

7: else 

8: Split d into overlapping chunks {ci}

9: Compute chunk embeddings {ϕ(ci)}

10: Write( Mg , k d, {ci, ϕ (ci)}, tam _builder) 

11: end if 

12: Create leaf nodes vi for chunks ci and add them to V

13: end for 

14: Cluster leaf nodes by embedding similarity into mid-level groups 15: for each mid-level group Gj do 

16: aj ← fsum (Gj ) ▷ semantic abstraction 17: Create mid-level node mj with text aj

18: Connect mj to its child leaves 19: end for 

20: Cluster mid-level nodes into high-level topic groups 21: for each high-level group Hk do 

22: bk ← fsum (Hk ) ▷ topic and reasoning template 23: Create high-level node hk with text bk

24: Connect hk to its child mid-level nodes 25: end for 

26: if there are multiple high-level nodes then 

27: Create root r by summarizing all high-level nodes 28: else 

29: Set the single high-level node as root r

30: end if 

31: return T = ( V, E ) and root r

Reasoner system prompt 

You are a precise QA system. Always give the shortest correct answer possible. Never explain. 

C Detailed Algorithms 

This section gives implementation-level pseu-docode for the main components of EfficientGraph-RAG. The algorithms expose the retrieval, verifica-tion, and memory-control logic used in our experi-ments, while omitting engineering details such as logging, parsing fallbacks, and cache bookkeeping that do not affect the method definition. 

Algorithm 2 TAM top-down retrieval 

Input: Query q, TAM tree T , root r, branch width k, thresh-old η, evidence budget K

Output: Retrieved evidence set Eq

1: eq ← ϕ(q)

2: C ← ∅ ▷ candidate leaves 3: B ← { r} ▷ retained beam 4: while B contains a non-leaf node do 

5: C ← C ∪ { v ∈ B | v is a leaf }

6: U ← S  

> v∈B, v is non-leaf

Child( v)

7: for each child u ∈ U do 

8: su ← cos( eq , ϕ (au)) 

9: end for 

10: B ← up to k nodes in U with highest su and su ≥ η

11: if B = ∅ then 

12: B ← the single node in U with highest su

13: end if 

14: end while 

15: C ← C ∪ B

16: Deduplicate candidate leaves in C

17: for each candidate leaf v ∈ C do 

18: sv ← cos( eq , ϕ (v)) 

19: end for 

20: Eq ← top-K leaves in C ranked by sv

21: return Eq

Algorithm 3 MARS verifier-guided retrieval loop 

Input: Query q, TAM tree T , root r, memory pool M, veri-fier threshold γ, maximum iterations Tmax = 2 

Output: Final answer y

1: q0 ← q

2: Eall ← ∅ 

3: for t = 1 to Tmax do 

4: zt ← Planner( qt−1)

5: Write( Mt, plan : t, z t, planner) 

6: Write( Ma, planner _log : t, z t, planner) 

7: Ct ← Navigator( qt−1, T, r )

8: Write( Mt, candidates : t, C t, navigator) 

9: Et ← Retriever( qt−1, C t)

10: Write( Mt, evidence : t, E t, retriever) 

11: (rt, s t, c t, ρ t) ← Verifier( q, E t)

12: αt ← (rt + st + ct)/3

13: Write( Mt, verification : t, (αt, ρ t), verifier) 

14: Eall ← Merge( Eall , E t)

15: if αt ≥ γ then 

16: break 

17: else if t < T max then 

18: ρt ← Read( Mt, verification : t, planner) 

19: qt ← RewriteQuery( q, q t−1, ρ t)

20: end if 

21: end for 

22: y ← Reasoner( q, E all )

23: return y

13 Algorithm 4 SMP permission check and memory update                                                                            

> Input: Request r= ( a, ℓ, o, k, v )with agent a, memory level ℓ, operation o, key k, optional value v
> Output: Return value for read or success flag for write 1: p←BasePermission( a, ℓ, o )
> 2: if pis undefined and o= READ then
> 3: p←InheritedReadPermission( a, ℓ )
> 4: end if
> 5: if pis undefined then
> 6: p←DynamicGate( a, ℓ, o )▷optional; otherwise deny 7: end if
> 8: if p= False then
> 9: Log denied request 10: return ∅for read or False for write 11: end if
> 12: if o= READ then
> 13: x←Store ℓ,a [k]
> 14: if x̸=∅then
> 15: Increment access count and record accessing agent 16: end if
> 17: return x
> 18: else if o= WRITE then
> 19: if the target store is full then
> 20: Evict the oldest item 21: end if
> 22: Store ℓ,a [k]←v
> 23: return True
> 24: end if

SMP access policy. In our implementation, SMP uses a fixed role-level access policy. Planner and Navigator can read Mg and read/write Mt; Re-triever can read Mg and Mt and write retrieved evidence to Mt; Verifier reads candidate evidence from Mt and writes verification signals to Mt;Reasoner reads accepted evidence from Mt and writes non-answer reusable retrieval artifacts to 

Mg. Agent-private memory Ma is accessible only to the owning agent. The Navigator implements Algorithm 2; thus re-planning reruns TAM traversal with a rewritten query rather than falling back to an all-leaf flat retrieval pass. 

D Dataset Details 

This section provides additional details on the datasets used in Section 4. We evaluate EfficientGraph-RAG on three retrieval-augmented task families: multi-hop text QA, long-context QA, and cross-modal document QA. 

D.1 HotpotQA 

HotpotQA is used as the standard multi-hop QA benchmark. We use the full distractor development split with n = 7 ,405 questions. Each question is paired with a set of distractor paragraphs, requir-ing the system to retrieve and combine evidence across multiple passages. This setting stresses both evidence retrieval and verification, making it a nat-ural testbed for the MARS verifier-guided retrieval loop. We report Exact Match (EM) and token-level F1 in the main table. 

D.2 LongBench 

LongBench is used to evaluate long-context retrieval-augmented QA. We sample three retrieval-style QA sub-tasks: hotpotqa , 2wikimqa , and 

musique . For each sub-task, we uniformly sam-ple 200 questions, giving n = 600 examples in total. The aggregate LongBench result in Table 1 is the unweighted average over the three sub-tasks. These sub-tasks cover different forms of long-context rea-soning: hotpotqa emphasizes multi-hop evidence aggregation, 2wikimqa often involves entity-centric comparison, and musique requires chaining multi-ple supporting facts. We report EM and token-level F1 in the main table. 

D.3 DocVQA 

DocVQA is used as the cross-modal document QA benchmark. We uniformly sample n = 2 ,000 ex-amples from the standard validation split. Each ex-ample consists of a document image and a natural-language question. To isolate the downstream RAG architecture, all compared methods use the same vision-language captioning front-end to con-vert document images into textual region-level evi-dence. We report Average Normalized Levenshtein Sim-ilarity (ANLS) as the main DocVQA answer-quality metric. Because many DocVQA questions refer to a single page or a small number of local re-gions, this setting also tests whether Adaptive Rout-ing can avoid unnecessary multi-agent retrieval on short-context queries. 

E LongBench Per-Subtask Results 

Table 6 reports the per-subtask LongBench results underlying the aggregate LongBench numbers in Table 1. The aggregate score is the unweighted av-erage over three retrieval-style QA sub-tasks: hot-potqa , 2wikimqa , and musique , with 200 examples sampled from each sub-task. 14 Table 6: LongBench per-subtask results.                                                          

> Method HotpotQA 2WikiMQA MuSiQue AVG EM AVG F1 AVG Acc. Token LM Lat.
> Vanilla RAG 0.340 0.425 0.175 0.313 0.404 0.358 798 0.60s
> ReAct 0.355 0.440 0.160 0.318 0.414 0.362 1,958 5.93s Self-RAG 0.345 0.405 0.170 0.307 0.396 0.347 1,935 6.05s Agentic-RAG 0.305 0.295 0.145 0.248 0.352 0.317 2,466 5.80s GraphRAG 0.220 0.270 0.055 0.182 0.225 0.197 1,449 13.16s
> EfficientGraph-RAG 0.360 0.495 0.230 0.362 0.454 0.410 708 1.87s
> Note: The first three columns report EM for each LongBench sub-task. Each sub-task contains 200 sampled examples. AVG columns are unweighted averages over the three sub-tasks. Token and LM Lat. follow the large-model-side accounting in Table 1.

EfficientGraph-RAG obtains the highest EM on all three LongBench sub-tasks, with the largest ab-solute gain on 2wikimqa . This pattern is consistent with the main-table observation that the proposed hierarchical retrieval and verification pipeline is most helpful when queries require organizing evi-dence across long contexts. 

F HotpotQA Per-Query Analysis 

This section provides additional per-query analysis for the HotpotQA experiments. The goal is to clar-ify how the aggregate token reduction in Table 1 arises from method-specific token-budget regimes rather than from a uniform per-query compression. 

F.1 Full Token-Budget Spectrum 

Figure 3 visualizes the distributional shift behind Table 2: most EfficientGraph-RAG queries fall be-low 500 large-model tokens, whereas ReAct and GraphRAG concentrate their query mass in substan-tially higher token regimes. Table 7 reports the full large-model token-budget spectrum on HotpotQA-7405. Each entry shows the EM score within a token bin, with the number of queries in that bin shown in parentheses. Bins with very small sup-port should be interpreted cautiously, since they correspond to outlier cases rather than a method’s typical operating regime. The spectrum supports the distributional-shift in-terpretation in Section 4.3. EfficientGraph-RAG is the only method with high-volume representation below 500 large-model tokens: 1,676 queries fall below 300 tokens and 3,118 fall in the 300–500 range. Together, these 4,794 queries account for 64.7% of HotpotQA-7405. By contrast, ReAct con-centrates 95.8% of its queries in the 1,200–2,500-token range, and GraphRAG places 93.5% of its queries above 5,000 tokens. Per-bin EM should not be read as a head-to-head comparison across methods, because each method’s queries in a bin are a different subset of the evaluation set. For example, EfficientGraph-RAG’s 800–1,200 bin contains hard cases that al-ready required a Verifier-triggered retry, whereas Self-RAG and Agentic-RAG place a much larger fraction of their overall query distribution in that range. The main result is therefore not that our method dominates every token bin, but that it shifts most queries into a low-token regime while main-taining aggregate EM close to ReAct. 

F.2 Metric Disagreement Examples 

Table 8 summarizes metric disagreements for EfficientGraph-RAG on HotpotQA-7405. These cases show that EM, token-level F1, and lenient substring-style accuracy capture different notions of answer correctness. We therefore use EM and F1 as the main HotpotQA answer-quality metrics in the main table. Table 9 gives representative examples. The first group shows cases where lenient accuracy accepts a shorter or normalized variant although EM is zero. The second group shows partial-overlap cases where F1 gives credit but EM and accuracy do not. The final group shows complete failures where all answer metrics reject the prediction. 

F.3 TAM Failure Modes 

We further inspect cases where the full pipeline fails and the error can be traced to TAM routing or abstraction. The goal of this analysis is not to claim that TAM is the main accuracy driver on HotpotQA, but to identify when hierarchical abstraction can hurt evidence selection. In the inspected sample of 36 TAM-related failures, we observe three re-curring patterns: entity confusion, detail loss, and 15 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100        

> Ours
> GraphRAG
> Agentic-RAG
> Self-RAG
> ReAct
> Vanilla RAG
> Percentage of queries
> <300 300–500 500–800 800–1,200 1,200–1,800 1,800–2,500 2,500–5,000 5,000+

Figure 3: HotpotQA token-budget distribution across methods. Table 7: Full HotpotQA token-budget spectrum.                                                         

> Method <300 300–500 500–800 800–1,200 1,200–1,800 1,800–2,500 2,500–5,000 5,000+
> Vanilla RAG 0.636 (11) 0.488 (1,248) 0.478 (6,066) 0.429 (77) ––––ReAct –0.000 (3) 1.000 (1) 0.593 (305) 0.515 (5,014) 0.510 (2,079) 0.000 (2) –Self-RAG 0.544 (395) 0.400 (5) 0.440 (116) 0.606 (2,441) 0.414 (2,819) 0.426 (1,623) 0.500 (6) –Agentic-RAG 0.385 (13) 0.588 (17) 0.700 (50) 0.563 (4,575) 0.556 (579) 0.459 (795) 0.214 (1,375) –GraphRAG –––0.333 (3) 0.583 (12) 0.556 (9) 0.322 (454) 0.342 (6,927)
> EfficientGraph-RAG (Ours) 0.549 (1,676) 0.555 (3,118) 0.468 (1,708) 0.365 (794) 0.262 (107) –––

Note: Entries are EM scores within each large-model token bin; parentheses show the number of queries in that bin. Bins with very small n are included for completeness but are not reliable indicators of a method’s typical behavior. 

Table 8: HotpotQA metric disagreement summary. 

Metric pattern Cases 

EM=0, Acc=1 980 EM=0, F1 ≥0.5, Acc=0 456 EM=1, Acc=1 3,745 EM=0, F1=0, Acc=0 1,955 

Note: Counts are computed over HotpotQA-7405 for EfficientGraph-RAG. The categories are diagnostic and need not sum to the full dataset because they focus on representative metric-agreement patterns. 

incorrect cross-document association. 

Table 10: TAM-related failure modes. 

Failure mode Cases Share 

Entity confusion 16 44.4% Detail loss 10 27.8% Wrong association 10 27.8% 

Note: Counts are from 36 manually inspected TAM-related failures. The table is diagnostic and should not be interpreted as a dataset-level error distribution. 

Entity confusion. The most common pattern is entity confusion, where an internal TAM abstrac-tion merges or over-emphasizes a salient entity and routes the query to a plausible but incorrect branch. For example, in a question about Mary Astor’s final 1964 film and its co-star, the full system an-swers “Bette Davis” instead of the gold answer “Mary Astor”. The error is consistent with the TAM abstraction emphasizing the more prominent co-mentioned entity. Similar failures occur when an abstraction introduces a name variant, such as answering “Vernon L. Smith” when the gold an-swer is “Vernon Smith”, or when a political entity association is collapsed incorrectly. 

Detail loss. The second pattern is loss of fine-grained details during abstraction. This is espe-cially harmful for date, year, and numeric ques-tions. For example, for a question asking when the place where François Beaucourt was active, the system predicts “1791” instead of the gold answer “1763”. In another case asking when Erik Watts’ father was born, the system returns “Insufficient evidence” instead of the gold date “May 5, 1939”. These examples suggest that mid-level summaries can preserve the broad topic while dropping the exact temporal detail needed for the answer. 

Incorrect cross-document association. The third pattern is wrong association across related documents. In these cases, TAM groups semanti-cally related evidence under a shared abstraction, but the downstream traversal follows the wrong entity or document relation. For example, for a question asking where a Dallas Cowboys punter from the 1980s played college football, the sys-16 Table 9: Representative HotpotQA metric-disagreement cases.                                         

> Pattern Question Gold Prediction EM F1 Acc.
> EM=0, Acc=1 What is the war that No. 22 Squadron RAAF followed as far as the Philippines sometimes called? the Asia-Pacific War Pacific War 00.500 1EM=0, Acc=1 Keene is an unincorporated community in Wabaunsee County, Kansas, in what federal republic composed of 50 states? The United States of America United States 00.667 1EM=0, F1 ≥0.5, Acc=0 Philadelphia, Here I come! is a 1964 play by an Irish dramatist who has been likened to an Irish Checkhov? Brian Patrick Friel Brian Friel 00.800 0EM=0, F1 ≥0.5, Acc=0 Which nuclear reservation in the United States did the U.S. Atomic Energy Com-mission acquire Meyers Mill as part of? The Savannah River Site Savannah River Plant 00.667 0EM=0, F1=0, Acc=0 Pramod Bhasin was the former CEO of a company that provided what kind of ser-vices? IT business process out-sourcing (BPO) 00.000 0EM=0, F1=0, Acc=0 The inventor of the Maxim Gun issued 1.9 million shares to what man? Nathan Rothschild no sufficient evidence 00.000 0

Note: Examples are selected from EfficientGraph-RAG outputs on HotpotQA-7405. They illustrate how EM, token-level F1, and lenient accuracy can disagree under answer normalization and substring matching. 

tem answers “University of Mississippi” instead of “Arizona State University”. In another case in-volving a New Dramatists past honoree, the system fails to recover the correct entity, “Brian Stokes Mitchell”. These errors indicate that coarse ab-stractions can be useful for routing, but may also blur entity-document boundaries in multi-hop QA. Overall, this analysis supports the role-specific interpretation in Section 4.4: TAM is a routing and Adaptive Routing component, not a uniformly additive EM booster on multi-hop text QA. Future work can further improve mid-level abstractions by making them more entity-grounded and detail-preserving. 

F.4 Case Studies: Verifier-Guided Recovery 

We provide representative HotpotQA cases where EfficientGraph-RAG recovers the correct answer after verifier-guided re-planning while multiple baselines fail. In our per-query logs, 257 ques-tions trigger a second MARS iteration, and 120 of them are cases where at least four baselines are incorrect. Table 11 shows three such examples. These cases illustrate that the value of MARS is not merely additional token budget, but targeted re-planning after evidence verification fails. The examples show a recurring pattern. Base-lines often retrieve a related but wrong entity or date and then commit to that answer. In EfficientGraph-RAG, the Verifier detects insuffi-cient or inconsistent evidence, writes a feedback signal into task memory, and triggers a second re-trieval iteration. The final Reasoner then answers from the merged evidence set rather than from the initial failed evidence alone. 17 Table 11: Verifier-guided recovery case studies.                 

> Question Gold Baseline failures Signal
> Reggaetón Lento is a song by the boy band formed on which date? December 13, 2015 Vanilla, ReAct, Self-RAG, and Agentic-RAG pre-dict August 26, 2016. Iter-2; score 0.333 Casey Jr. Splash ’n’ Soak Station is an attraction in a city located in which county? Orange County Vanilla predicts Bayside County; ReAct and Agentic-RAG predict Osceola County; GraphRAG predicts Mecklenburg County. Iter-2; score 0.000 Candy Coburn has shared the stage with an American country group with who playing guitar? Charles Kelley ReAct and Self-RAG predict Brooks and Dunn; Agentic-RAG gives no specific guitarist; GraphRAG predicts Sugarland. Iter-2; score 0.667
> Note: All examples are HotpotQA hard bridge questions. Iter-2 means that the first evidence set did not pass verification and the system triggered a second MARS iteration. The “Gold” column is also the EfficientGraph-RAG answer after recovery.

G Component Ablation Details 

This section clarifies the role-specific interpretation of the LongBench component ablation in Table 3. The ablation should not be read as an additive de-composition in which every mechanism indepen-dently improves aggregate EM. Instead, it identifies which part of the retrieval-state framework drives answer quality under the LongBench setting and which parts provide routing, reuse, and adaptive execution. 

Interpreting the w/o TAM variant. The w/o TAM variant slightly improves aggregate Long-Bench EM (Table 3) but remains within the confi-dence interval reported in the main analysis. This does not contradict TAM’s role in the framework. LongBench-600 evaluates bounded long-context settings, where flat retrieval can remain compet-itive and hierarchical routing is not isolated as a uniform aggregate-EM gain. We therefore frame TAM as a structured routing and Adaptive Rout-ing component rather than as a standalone accu-racy module on LongBench. TAM also supplies the leaf-count signal used by Adaptive Routing on DocVQA, where bypassing the full MARS loop is central to the cross-modal result. 

Interpreting SMP. Removing SMP does not ma-terially change aggregate LongBench EM, but it removes the controlled mechanism for sharing reusable state artifacts across agents and queries. We therefore interpret SMP as a coordination and reuse mechanism rather than as a direct per-query accuracy module. 

H Adaptive Routing Threshold Sensitivity 

Adaptive Routing uses the TAM leaf-count thresh-old τ to decide whether a DocVQA query should bypass the full MARS pipeline and route directly to the Reasoner. We tune τ on a uniformly sam-pled DocVQA-200 subset. Table 12 reports the sensitivity results. 

Table 12: Adaptive Routing threshold sensitivity.                                  

> τnANLS Token Bypass
> 2200 0.6744 607.7 0.0% 4200 0.7117 596.9 16.5% 5200 0.7290 630.0 36.0% 7200 0.7356 659.5 71.5% 10 200 0.7261 626.2 93.0%
> Note: Results are on a uniformly sampled DocVQA-200 sub-set. Token denotes large-model tokens per query. Bypass is the percentage of queries routed directly to the Reasoner without the full MARS pipeline.
> 245710
> 0.67
> 0.69
> 0.71
> 0.73 default Leaf-count threshold τ
> ANLS

Figure 4: Adaptive Routing threshold sensitivity on DocVQA-200. 

Figure 4 shows an inverted-U trend in ANLS. Very small thresholds under-trigger bypassing: at 

τ = 2 , no queries bypass MARS and the system obtains the lowest ANLS. Increasing the threshold improves answer quality by allowing short-context queries to avoid unnecessary multi-agent retrieval. The best ANLS in this subset occurs at τ = 7 ,while τ = 10 routes 93.0% of queries through the bypass path. We use τ = 5 as the default setting because it provides a stable trade-off between quality and 18 Table 13: LongBench reuse under different execution modes.                     

> Metric 4-shard Serial ∆
> AVG EM 0.362 0.360 -0.002 AVG F1 0.454 0.450 -0.004 AVG Acc. 0.408 0.410 +0.002 AVG LM Token 708.0 708.2 +0.2
> Mghit rate 7.42% 16.49% +9.07pp
> Note: Both runs evaluate the same LongBench-600 setting. Token denotes large-model tokens per query. The serial run allows more cross-query cache accumulation.

cost: its ANLS is close to the best value in the sweep, while its bypass rate remains moderate. This avoids the two extremes of under-triggering Adaptive Routing ( τ = 2 ) and bypassing MARS for nearly all queries ( τ = 10 ). 

I Additional Reuse Analysis 

This section further analyzes the global-memory reuse behavior of SMP. The main goal is to verify that Mg reuse changes the memory-access pro-file without changing the answer-quality metrics or large-model token cost. 

I.1 Execution Mode and LongBench Reuse 

Table 13 compares the original 4-shard LongBench run with a fully serial rerun. The answer-quality metrics and large-model token cost remain essen-tially unchanged, while the Mg hit rate increases substantially. This is consistent with the intended role of Mg: it caches reusable document-level com-putations without changing retrieval or reasoning decisions. 

I.2 Reuse Spectrum across Settings 

Table 14 reports the Mg hit-rate spectrum across the evaluated settings. Reuse is strongly corpus-dependent. Textual long-context subsets show higher hit rates in the serial setting, especially 

2wikimqa and musique . By contrast, DocVQA does not exhibit the same cross-query accumula-tion: its caption-derived chunks are more query-specific, so reuse is driven more by intra-query caption-fragment overlap than by persistent cross-query cache hits. 

Table 14: Mg reuse spectrum.                

> Setting Original hit Serial hit
> LongBench-HotpotQA 0.17% 0.70% HotpotQA-7405 2.88% 3.77% LongBench-MuSiQue 4.55% 17.45% LongBench AVG 7.42% 16.49% LongBench-2WikiMQA 16.92% 29.10% DocVQA-2000 23.18% 19.75%
> Note: Hit rates measure document-level global-memory reuse. For DocVQA, the serial value is lower because VL-generated captions are largely query-specific rather than accumulated across queries.
> LB-HotpotQA
> HotpotQA
> LB-AVG
> LB-MuSiQue
> DocVQA
> LB-2WikiMQA
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 0.7
> 3.77
> 16 .49
> 17 .45
> 19 .75
> 29 .1
> Mg hit rate (%)

Figure 5: Mg hit-rate spectrum across settings. 

Figure 5 visualizes corpus-dependent global-memory reuse. Textual long-context settings such as LongBench-2WikiMQA and LongBench-MuSiQue show higher reuse, while HotpotQA ex-hibits lower reuse and DocVQA reflects a different caption-driven reuse pattern. 

I.3 Interpretation 

The analysis supports three conclusions. First, global-memory reuse does not materially change answer quality or large-model token cost: Long-Bench EM, F1, accuracy, and token cost remain stable across execution modes. Second, Mg reuse is most effective when documents or document-derived computations recur across queries, as in the textual LongBench subsets. Third, cross-modal reuse behaves differently: DocVQA uses VL-generated captions that are often unique to each image-question pair, so its hit rate is not expected to monotonically increase under serial execution. These results clarify the role of SMP in the full framework. SMP should not be interpreted as a per-query accuracy booster; instead, it provides controlled reuse and state coordination whose ben-efit depends on corpus overlap, execution mode, and the granularity of reusable units. 19